The Wicked Witch was both surprised and worried when she saw the mark
In the afternoon the sun shone hot in their faces, for there were no
“My name is Dorothy,” said the girl, “and I am going to the Emerald


sparkled with gems, as did everything else. In the center of the chair
until a Stork flew by, who, upon seeing them, stopped to rest at the
With Dorothy hard at work, the Witch thought she would go into the
window, engaged in deep thought.
“I believe I will try it myself,” said the Woodman, and shouldering his

for its ears were lying close to its head and its mouth was wide open,
“Why should I do this?” demanded the Beast.
have any brains, after all!”

happy that he hugged them all, even the Lion and Toto; and as they
beautiful, so that the travelers rejoiced in leaving the forest far
So I have to stay shut up in these rooms all day, and it gets tiresome.
“To the Emerald City,” said Dorothy, “to see the Great Oz.”
anyone.
every part of the room. And at last they looked at Dorothy again.
with straw, said, quickly, “Oh, yes; you can save our friend, the
used the charm of the Cap. Once was when she had made the Winkies her
Scarecrow had decided what to do.
one bring a long piece of string.”
The Lion now walked to the Throne Room and knocked at the door.

down to the little brook and filled it with clear, sparkling water.

was afternoon before they came to the great wall that surrounded the

Cap, I shall give it to the King of the Monkeys, that he and his band
in this world, no matter whether one is a crow or a man.’
do?”

to find his friends waiting for him, and told them of his terrible
“Certainly,” answered the Queen; “but it is a great way off, for you
The Winkies were not a brave people, but they had to do as they were
there was scarcely enough for herself and Toto for the day.


not send me home until I have killed the Wicked Witch of the West; and
“The princess was angry, and she knew, of course, who did it. She had
how to keep young in spite of the many years she has lived.”
We are so grateful to you for having killed the Wicked Witch of the
“Why do you wish to see Oz?” he asked.

Toward evening, when Dorothy was tired with her long walk and began to
“That’s all right,” said the Stork, who was flying along beside them.
on three legs. As she left them the milkmaid cast many reproachful

L. Frank Baum
him. Indeed, the Tin Woodman began to cry, but fortunately remembered
and as long as I know myself to be a coward I shall be unhappy.”
 Chapter XXII. The Country of the Quadlings
thought, “I can still make her my slave, for she does not know how to
and carried the sleeping girl between them through the flowers.
voice:

“Certainly,” answered the Scarecrow. “How do you do?”
upon field of ripening grain, with well-paved roads running between,
thought I was a great Wizard. Of course I let them think so, because
“You don’t need them. You are learning something every day. A baby has
“You killed the Witch of the East and you wear the silver shoes, which
“The road to the City of Emeralds is paved with yellow brick,” said the
that the long poles would not touch the bottom.
very tedious being perched up here night and day to scare away crows.”
the hard, yellow road-bed. The sun shone bright and the birds sang
Instantly the wicked woman gave a loud cry of fear, and then, as
the shoes, and after shaking the dust out of them handed them to
“I’m very sorry, indeed,” said Dorothy, who was truly frightened to see
Woodman.
and was soon out of sight.
farther away from the road of yellow brick. And the water grew so deep
she continued, “that I am sure I could love you dearly. Won’t you let
“I have always thought myself very big and terrible; yet such little
“I will go too,” declared the Scarecrow; “but I shall not be of much
hats, and green clothes of all sorts. At one place a man was selling
Dorothy was puzzled at this, for it sounded queer to hear a stuffed man
“Oh, no,” declared the Scarecrow; “this Lion is a coward.”
But it takes time to make a raft, even when one is as industrious and
something for me first. Help me and I will help you.”
of the Tin Woodman, and now they knew why he was so anxious to get a
to the Land of Oz, how she had found her companions, and of the
right foot.
her breakfast. She saw there was not much bread left in the basket, and
The soldier with the green whiskers led them through the streets of the
shut up in a room; but he had too much sense to let this worry him, so
it is we never knew.”
the door of her castle, she happened to look around and saw Dorothy

forest Dorothy lay down and slept, for she was tired by the long walk.

The Discovery of Oz, the Terrible

She had such a frightened little voice that Dorothy stopped and said,
and stuffed the rest of the space with straw, to hold it in place.
wizards amongst us.”

shame to deprive the people of so wonderful a ruler.”
handsome red uniforms trimmed with gold braid; and as Dorothy
Her friends were sorry, but could do nothing to help her; so Dorothy
strong enough to hold its weight. The Beast had a head like that of a


here was the Scarecrow, as good as ever, thanking them over and over


ever seen.
there. Dorothy went to get him, and saw such delicious fruit hanging
doing just as we pleased without calling anybody master. Perhaps some
Here they dropped the poor Woodman, who fell a great distance to the
This book is dedicated to my good friend & comrade
what we desire. So be of good cheer, my friends, for all will yet be

Chapter XV
they set to work in one of the big yellow rooms of the castle and

coarse black hair. It had a great mouth, with a row of sharp teeth a
beauty was so great that Gayelette loved him dearly, and hastened to
ever lived, if not braver,” said the Lion modestly.

of his prison and set him free. They went in together to the castle,
left clinging to the pole in the middle of the river.
entered the Throne Room he greeted her pleasantly:
Then the Witch looked at the big, shaggy Lion and asked, “When Dorothy
silver whistle.


“Go to those people,” said the Witch, “and tear them to pieces.”
Dorothy was quite grieved at this mishap.

“Glinda is a Good Witch, isn’t she?” asked the child.
setting them free from bondage. The houses of the Munchkins were


flowers that surrounded them would never end. They followed the bend of


“It’s a mystery,” replied the Lion. “I suppose I was born that way. All
straightway disappeared, much to the surprise of little Toto, who
“Let me have your name, and I will ask Glinda if she will receive you.”
the courtyard to tell the Lion that the Wicked Witch of the West had
and stretched out his arms. And when the crows saw him they were

“Good-bye!” they all answered, and away the Queen ran, while Dorothy
“Or give me a heart,” said the Tin Woodman.
to escape the great Wildcat?” They all bowed so low to the little Queen
“if I run I may fall down and break myself.”
Dorothy caught Toto at last and started to follow her aunt. When she
tree trunk. It has eight of these long legs, and as the monster crawls
slaves.”

“That is true,” said the Scarecrow. “You see,” he continued

meal for herself and Toto would empty the basket. To be sure, neither
first thing they came to was a china milkmaid milking a china cow. As
“You are certainly as good as you are beautiful! But you have not yet
“It seems, in spite of dangers, that the best thing Dorothy can do is
the elephants and the tigers and the bears had ever tried to fight me,
you see, the Land of Oz has never been civilized, for we are cut off


“What shall we do now?” asked Dorothy sadly.
“Oz was not such a bad Wizard, after all,” said the Tin Woodman, as he
Lion, “he would have been a brave man.”
The King bowed low before Dorothy, and asked, “What is your command?”
Then Oz got into the basket and said to all the people in a loud voice:
you.”
while Oz was alive he never was allowed to come farther than the door.
green egg.
he made my nose and my mouth. But I did not speak, because at that time

away. For a day and a night I traveled through the air, and on the
 Chapter XI. The Emerald City of Oz
“That was one of my tricks,” answered Oz. “Step this way, please, and I

his great box, and then he politely opened the gate for our friends.
was an enormous Head, without a body to support it or any arms or legs
their rooms in high spirits. Even Dorothy had hope that “The Great and

time there was a great flock of them about me.
“Come with me, for Oz has sent for you.”
she noticed coming toward her a group of the queerest people she had

Dorothy, and she dressed her in one of the prettiest gowns, made of

of the cyclone; and there it remained and was carried miles and miles
Munchkins, and white is the witch color. So we know you are a friendly

did not know whether he would find Oz a lovely Lady or a Head, but he
Then Dorothy and the Lion got up, and the girl helped the Tin Woodman
its ruler and the people like me. The only thing that worries me is how
tell them of the terrible Beast he had seen. They all wondered greatly
were careful not to hurt her.

of the Great Oz.
you and obey your slightest wish. There is only one thing I ask in
“Very well,” she answered, and putting on the Golden Cap she uttered

was clothed all in green, from his head to his feet, and even his skin
through rough and dangerous places before you reach the end of your
her.

“And I want him to give me a heart,” said the Tin Woodman.
“Come with me; and see that you mind everything I tell you, for if you
need never do wrong; but I have no heart, and so I must be very

build this City, and my Palace; and they did it all willingly and well.
She opened a little door and Dorothy walked boldly through and found
cannot kill her yourself, how do you expect me to do it?”
Dorothy blew the little whistle she had always carried about her neck


Both Dorothy and the Scarecrow had been greatly interested in the story
do not I will make an end of you, as I did of the Tin Woodman and the


snarling brutes with it, and both were dashed to pieces on the sharp

So he sprang into the water, and the Tin Woodman caught fast hold of
The Wicked Witch was so angry when she saw her black bees in little
“Then that accounts for it. In the civilized countries I believe there
he looks like a cat. To others he appears as a beautiful fairy, or a
“Yes,” answered the tin man, “I did. I’ve been groaning for more than a
“Now there is Mr. Joker, one of our clowns,” continued the china lady,
“I didn’t bite him,” said the Lion, as he rubbed his nose with his paw

“Yonder, among the oak trees,” said the tiger, pointing with his
“Perhaps there are wild beasts in the forest now,” said Dorothy.
“And I am going to ask him to give me a heart,” said the Woodman.

when he lived in Kansas, and he saw no harm in it.
Then the mice were unharnessed from the truck and scampered away



Dorothy, “and then we can keep on to the Emerald City.”

branches shut out the daylight; but the travelers did not stop, and

fat and looked chubby and good-natured, were dressed all in red, which
“What can we do, then?” she asked.
eaten nothing but nuts all day, and she made a hearty meal of the ripe

“You’re more than that,” said the Scarecrow, in a grieved tone; “you’re
whatever. There was no hair upon this head, but it had eyes and a nose
you wish me to use my magic power to send you home again you must do
Lion said:
everything, and was glad to get a good supper again.
found she was riding quite easily. After the first few whirls around,
the soft, fresh grass; and it was not long before they reached the road
the South and you will soon reach it.”
my life. See how soft the dried leaves are under your feet and how rich
for the first time in his life he was too tired to chase a butterfly
growing bigger and bigger at the wonderful sights she saw.


merrily at his own mishap.
silk gown and spot it.”

Woodman and said:

and looked at her sharply and steadily. Then the mouth moved, and
midst of a great meadow of poppies. Now it is well known that when
“I also,” said the Tin Woodman, “am well-pleased with my new heart;
Dorothy nodded gravely and the Queen made a curtsy, after which she


the ripe corn.
As Dorothy gazed upon this in wonder and fear, the eyes turned slowly
They began walking through the country of the china people, and the
But whenever there is danger, my heart begins to beat fast.”
of tin. His head and arms and legs were jointed upon his body, but he
away.”

heart?”


She was awakened by a shock, so sudden and severe that if Dorothy had
“Are you a Munchkin?” asked Dorothy.

Great Oz I must take you to his Palace. But first you must put on the

“I will tell you my story, and then you will know.”

The Scarecrow was both pleased and proud at the fulfillment of his

the air and back to the bank, where Dorothy and the Lion and the Tin

and chatted together. Dorothy was once more filled with the hope of
mane, while they talked of their troubles and tried to plan some way to
good friends.
“Why do you wish to see the terrible Oz?” asked the man.
them. As they passed over the hill the Hammer-Heads yelled with
“Carry us over the hill to the country of the Quadlings,” answered the

could see was a mass of towers and steeples behind the green walls, and
will bestow upon you a great many brains, and such good brains that you

“He says so himself,” answered the Scarecrow, “and he would never hurt
velvet; and all of them fitted Dorothy exactly.

then she dreamed she was in Kansas, where Aunt Em was telling her how
It was lucky the Scarecrow and the Woodman were wide awake and heard
She left Dorothy alone and went back to the others. These she also led
joints, so that I could move around as well as ever. But, alas! I had
city where Oz dwells the country is beautiful. But I am not afraid so
the china girl cried out:
the big throne and the others stood respectfully before him.
enter his presence alone, and he will admit but one each day.

 Chapter IX. The Queen of the Field Mice
stuffed with straw, like mine, you would probably all live in the

that I can never do.”

“But I cannot!” exclaimed Dorothy, greatly surprised.
moved it gently from side to side until it worked freely, and then the



The next morning the sun was behind a cloud, but they started on, as if


his mouth, for his jaws were tightly rusted together. He became greatly
“Get an oil-can and oil my joints,” he answered. “They are rusted so

“This is the second time you have called us,” said the Monkey King,
“so good-bye and good luck to you.”
the little girl thought she had lost him. But soon she saw one of his
The next moment it seemed as if she were flying through the air; and

The Witch of the North seemed to think for a time, with her head bowed

Then a low, quiet voice came from the Ball of Fire, and these were the
return. The Witch did not bleed where she was bitten, for she was so

so I also will go with her to the Land of the South.”
they drew near, the cow suddenly gave a kick and kicked over the stool,

replied the Princess.
 Chapter XXIII. Glinda The Good Witch Grants Dorothy’s Wish
“I will go with you; but I’m too much of a coward to kill the Witch,”
“I know it,” returned Dorothy, “but we have lost the Scarecrow, and are
around and looking at her timidly. But the Scarecrow told her about
all the magic arts I know of to keep you from harm.”



long it took him to fill the basket, for it enabled him to keep away
should be quite happy.”
“Do you not see us?” answered the Scarecrow.

“I cannot think why this wall is here, nor what it is made of.”


companions.
“He is my dog, Toto,” answered Dorothy.
“So I did. I don’t care who kills her. But until she is dead I will not
people to call me a fool, and if my head stays stuffed with straw

the mark upon her forehead. The child did not know this, and was full
“Aren’t they beautiful?” the girl asked, as she breathed in the spicy
“Bless your dear heart,” she said, “I am sure I can tell you of a way
“I think I could jump over it,” said the Cowardly Lion, after measuring


“What must I do?” asked the girl.
“This is bad,” said the Tin Woodman, “for if we cannot get to the land
The soldier then left them and the Scarecrow said:

But the little woman evidently expected her to answer; so Dorothy said,
which were so brilliant in color they almost dazzled Dorothy’s eyes.
“If you have,” continued the Tin Woodman, “you ought to be glad, for it
wonderful rooms in the world. The Tin Woodman lay down on his bed from
unreal. The winged fairies of Grimm and Andersen have brought more
his shaggy mane and looked thoughtful.

go to the land of the Winkies, seek out the Wicked Witch, and destroy
“Over the hill of the Hammer-Heads,” he answered, “lies a grand old
door. After picking out the silver shoe, which was all that was left of

at the many forms the Great Wizard could take upon himself, and the

After a few hours the road began to be rough, and the walking grew so
powers at all I soon found out that the Witches were really able to do

it happens that we are three times the slaves of the owner of the
black bees came flying toward her.
are grateful to you for the favor.”

It was not such an awful voice as she had expected to come from the big

Others of the Monkeys caught the Scarecrow, and with their long fingers
unhappy unless you give me brains.”

“To see the Good Witch who rules here,” she answered. “Will you take me
of the first things he did was to paint my ears, so that I heard what
arms stretched out and his ugly face grinning terribly; but he saw the
“Oz himself is the Great Wizard,” answered the Witch, sinking her voice
your silver shoes he was very much interested. At last I told him about
Dorothy’s room at night to take the shoes, and her dread of water was

and chickens, all made of china, were standing about in groups.

“Step inside,” answered the soldier, “and I will carry your message to
were greatly pleased to see this delightful country before them.
him.”
peg on the wall, he opened another gate, and they all followed him
to do so.

since the Queen of the Mice had given it to her. In a few minutes they

before them a high wall which seemed to be made of white china. It was


“Help Dorothy to kill the Wicked Witch of the West,” replied the Beast.
pull it quite easily. Even the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman could sit

covering her face with kisses. “Where in the world did you come from?”
There seemed to be no horses nor animals of any kind; the men carried
she would cry bitterly for hours, with Toto sitting at her feet and
but, nothing daunted, I had them replaced with tin ones. The Wicked
The Guardian of the Gates led them through the streets until they came

“Can’t you give me brains?” asked the Scarecrow.
things as flowers came near to killing me, and such small animals as



words it spoke:
was used to it. But my action angered the Wicked Witch of the East, for
The Scarecrow and the Woodman now began to fasten the mice to the
friends to tell them of his good fortune.
“Just as easily as he could give me brains,” said the Scarecrow.

“I cannot tell,” answered the soldier, “for nobody has ever crossed the
exclaimed:
covered with wrinkles, her hair was nearly white, and she walked rather



Little Toto, now that he had an enemy to face, ran barking toward the
and blood-curdling incidents devised by their authors to point a
The woman now gave Dorothy a bed to sleep in, and Toto lay down beside


another forest, where the trees were bigger and older than any they had
She watched Dorothy carefully, to see if she ever took off her shoes,

wolves lying dead, and the strangers still traveling through her
together were rows of emeralds, set closely, and glittering in the
“She could not help it, for she is melted,” explained the Scarecrow.
did not need to be wiped away. As for the Lion, he wiped his eyes so
Dorothy presently asked him a question the Tin Woodman could not open
house broke the broad sweep of flat country that reached to the edge of
came to you to beg that you give me courage, so that in reality I may
shall we do now?”
All were painted blue, for in this country of the East blue was the
then replaced the square of tin, soldering it neatly together where it
“If that is so,” said the child joyfully, “I will ask them to carry me
of the poppy bed to the green fields, where he could breathe the sweet,
brains, and it is worth a lot of bother to be able to think properly.”

she returned and asked anxiously, “Where are your joints?”
but when he did open his eyes and roll off the truck he was very glad
“That must be a matter of opinion,” said the Tin Woodman. “For my part,
about the Woodman, like little heaps of fine coal.

Dorothy carried the shoes into the house and placed them on the table.
girl.
“Oh, gracious!” cried Dorothy. “Are you a real witch?”
me as soon as I could earn enough money to build a better house for
strange people. Her tears seemed to grieve the kind-hearted Munchkins,

She was dressed in green silk gauze and wore upon her flowing green
“‘This fellow will scare the crows fast enough,’ said the farmer. ‘He
He seized his axe, which he had made very sharp, and as the leader of
“Or I my courage?” asked the Lion.
“I have come for my courage,” announced the Lion, entering the room.
trees by the riverside and make a truck that will carry the Lion.”
help her into the basket, when, crack! went the ropes, and the balloon
backward, while even the fierce beasts stopped short and looked at him
“The Quadlings think she is good,” said the soldier, “and she is kind
beast.” Here he mewed so like a kitten that Toto pricked up his ears
So the Scarecrow climbed farther up and sat down on the top of the

heart disease.”

golden buckles on their shoes; and princes with jeweled crowns upon
“But how about my courage?” asked the Lion anxiously.

been painted, but the sun blistered the paint and the rains washed it
“What is your trouble?” asked the Lion quietly.



“I hope so,” said Dorothy earnestly, “since you seem anxious to have
and none could live to cross it.”
and showing plainly that he had been mended in many places.
“I felt sad at this, for it showed I was not such a good Scarecrow
running up to her. Among them was the Queen herself, who asked, in her


“Very well,” answered the little man. “But I shall have to cut a hole
the City, the King bowed low to Dorothy, and then flew swiftly away,
“Who is Glinda?” inquired the Scarecrow.
Uncle Henry never laughed. He worked hard from morning till night and
“Well, I’ll try,” said the Stork, “but if I find he is too heavy to
her, she was sure, to make him draw her chariot whenever she wished to

“Oil my neck, first,” replied the Tin Woodman. So she oiled it, and as

beautiful green fields before them.


grandfather was flying out with his band when he saw Quelala walking
the Winged Monkeys to you? They will carry you to the City of Oz in
“I know it,” returned the Lion, wiping a tear from his eye with the tip
one I am a humbug.”


am ashamed to say that I cannot keep my promises.”
*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WONDERFUL WIZARD OF OZ ***
once more.”
mice have saved my life. How strange it all is! But, comrades, what
roughly. When a big branch bent down to seize him the Woodman chopped
“We are lost, for they will surely tear us to pieces with their sharp
too stupid and ugly to mate with one so beautiful and wise. At last,
“Good-bye!” he called after them, and they were very sorry to leave
more at ease, and presently Toto and the Cowardly Lion had grown to be
When the Wizard was given this message he was so frightened that he
journey,” remarked the Lion.
“And I shall get my courage,” said the Lion thoughtfully.
before. But tell me, is it a civilized country?”
“Where is this great spider of yours now?” asked the Lion.
been painted yellow in the country of the Winkies and blue in the

voice. “But don’t strike me—please don’t—and I’ll do anything you want
minute he was raised from the ground and flung headlong among his
wished the girl to remain with her and do the cooking and the
The Lion also curled himself up to sleep and Toto lay beside him.

bear the sight of us, he called us all to him in the forest after he
they had passed safely through, although they had suffered many
this new comrade at first, for he could not forget how nearly he had
these were all dressed in green clothes and had greenish skins. They

“You will be very welcome,” answered Dorothy, “for you will help to
“How do you feel?” she asked.
the North.”
our way.”

“so you have certainly saved my life. How did you happen to be here?”

we must stop where we are.”

the river, and at last came upon their friend the Lion, lying fast
“This isn’t the road,” said the Stork, as she twisted her long neck and

they were none of them nearly so large and brave as you.”
being such a humbug.”
When the Scarecrow had bowed, as prettily as his straw stuffing would
Tin Woodman.
one came near them nor spoke to them because of the great Lion, of
three times and command the shoes to carry you wherever you wish to


“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible. Who are you, and why do you seek me?”
wait calmly and see what the future would bring. At last she crawled
to start. Dorothy sat down in the middle of the raft and held Toto in
sure Toto is nearly starved. Let us stop at the next house and talk to
“Or send me back to Kansas,” said Dorothy.
“Send me back to Kansas, where my Aunt Em and Uncle Henry are,” she
joints properly oiled. The Scarecrow stuffed himself with fresh straw


and bade them good-bye. The Winkies were sorry to have them go, and

known it. But how can I help it?”
The Deadly Poppy Field
“Oh, dear! Oh, dear!” cried Dorothy, clasping her hands together in
The Silver Shoes took but three steps, and then she stopped so suddenly
“What is that?” asked Dorothy.
“There lived here then, away at the North, a beautiful princess, who
many big, jagged rocks at the bottom. The sides were so steep that none

fruits. Banks of gorgeous flowers were on every hand, and birds with

troubled by the scent of the flowers.
stop to rest, and so climbed to the top of the fence beside the road
face and over the hinges of his jaw, and there they rusted. When

those of the Munchkins.


“No, I cannot do that,” she replied, “but I will give you my kiss, and
by the others.
“We must protect him ourselves if he is in danger,” replied the Tin
Dorothy listened to this speech with wonder. What could the little
“No, but I am their friend, although I live in the land of the North.
the hard floor would not hurt their feet. Of course they took pains not
Scarecrow said, “Oh, my!”
were locked together by a little key that was at the end of a chain the
two of the Monkeys caught Dorothy in their arms and flew away with her.

farther into the sky.
scent of the bright flowers.
When they were all sitting in a row on the top of the wall, they looked
“I am Dorothy,” answered the girl, “and these are my friends, the Tin
“How?” asked the Woodman.

would not rest him to lie down, and he could not close his eyes; so he
“I am only a Scarecrow, stuffed with straw. Therefore I have no brains,
a green ribbon.
The Scarecrow went in and found the little man sitting down by the
from the fire, as he feared a spark might get into his straw and burn
She gave some to Toto, and taking a pail from the shelf she carried it
On the fourth day, to her great joy, Oz sent for her, and when she
quite dead.
“For,” he said, “if I should get caught in the rain, and rust again, I
The streets were lined with beautiful houses all built of green marble
“Thank you,” he answered gratefully.
“I shall be glad to have your company,” said Dorothy.
at him and broke off all their stings against the tin, without hurting
good-bye and sent me to you,” said the girl.
the sun sets, and you cannot fail to find her.”

“You must walk. It is a long journey, through a country that is
journey.”
strangers and destroy them.
were so frightened that they ran back as fast as they could.
“Let me try it first,” said the Scarecrow, “for it doesn’t hurt me to
again for saving him.
Queen—the Queen of all the Field Mice!”

The first day’s journey was through the green fields and bright flowers
The three Munchkins bowed low to her and wished her a pleasant journey,
might have stood and rusted in the forest till the end of the world.”


heap, she got into a terrible rage, and blew three times upon her
the Scarecrow.

for he was big and heavy; but the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman stood
the old woman, she cleaned and dried it with a cloth, and put it on her
With these words the Witch fell down in a brown, melted, shapeless mass
nothing but the great gray prairie on every side. Not a tree nor a
Palace of Oz, the Great Wizard. There was a soldier before the door,
“Why do you have to obey the charm of the Golden Cap?” she asked.

farther. Dorothy and Toto and the Lion lay down to sleep, while the

broken handle. Others polished the blade until all the rust was removed
often with the tip of his tail that it became quite wet, and he was
escape. But they could find no way to get out of the castle, for it was
the journey, and there she saw the Golden Cap. She tried it on her own
have a heart. I have played Wizard for so many years that I may as well



straw; and if you will bring him back to us, we shall thank you ever
“How shall we get down?” asked Dorothy.
“We!” exclaimed the girl. “Are you going with me?”
add to their discomfort, they soon heard strange noises in the depths
great forest, flying from tree to tree, eating nuts and fruit, and
looked up and saw Dorothy running toward her.


was also a powerful sorceress. All her magic was used to help the
Kansas and Aunt Em, it did not matter so much whether the Woodman had


“Certainly; that is why I know it,” returned the Scarecrow. “If it
The next morning the soldier with the green whiskers came to the
his pole in the middle of the water, looking very lonely and sad.

“Anyone would know that,” said Dorothy.
“Where is he?” asked the Stork.
“But we must cross it,” said the Scarecrow. “We’re going to the country

Dorothy began to sob at this, for she felt lonely among all these
spectacles, why of course everything you see looks green to you. The
with a green carpet and lovely green furniture set with emeralds. The
after do three times the bidding of the owner of the Golden Cap. This

wishes to go that way.”
green pictures that made her laugh, they were so funny.
thoughtfully, “for you must sleep, and eat and drink. However, you have
ground with a great clatter.
After a few moments she came back to say that Dorothy and the others
with Toto and pulled his tail and crowed and laughed in a way that
coward like me,” continued the Lion sadly.
“Then, if you don’t mind, I’ll go with you,” said the Lion, “for my

Dorothy came to meet them and thanked the little mice warmly for saving



you.”
first glimpse of the world.
Wizard Oz, who would soon send her back to her own home again.
“Why not call the Winged Monkeys, and ask them to carry you over the
became quite friendly with the little girl.
It was a very tall tree, and the trunk was so smooth that no one could


“If we leave her here she will die,” said the Lion. “The smell of the
the dishes, a table, three or four chairs, and the beds. Uncle Henry

charm, and Dorothy could not use it against her, even had she known how

the wolves coming.

top and supported by a thick neck full of wrinkles. But he had no arms
“Won’t you tell me a story, while we are resting?” asked the child.

“But I don’t want to live here,” cried Dorothy. “I want to go to
“Don’t speak of it,” replied Oz.
“And I shall get my brains,” added the Scarecrow joyfully.
and he was not in the least spoiled by all his good fortune. He
road, and then he struck at the Tin Woodman with his sharp claws. But,
the scarlet fields. The Scarecrow began to grumble a bit.


was left but the silver shoes.
“You are a wicked creature!” cried Dorothy. “You have no right to take
“Isn’t it a beauty?” he asked.
Down the stream the raft floated, and the poor Scarecrow was left far
“You need fear your enemy no longer.”
Dorothy leaned her chin upon her hand and gazed thoughtfully at the




The Emerald City was soon left far behind. As they advanced the ground
“Take me home to Aunt Em!”

Toto did not like it. He ran about the room, now here, now there,

away.

through the grass to their homes. The Queen of the Mice was the last to
answered the Scarecrow.
remember that a short time ago I was up on a pole in a farmer’s
“I’m not feeling well,” said the Scarecrow, with a smile, “for it is
whisked his tail from side to side in pure joy at being in the country
 Chapter IV. The Road Through the Forest



It was very dark, and the wind howled horribly around her, but Dorothy
blue and purple blossoms, besides great clusters of scarlet poppies,
But Dorothy, knowing her to be a witch, had expected her to disappear
from all the rest of the world. Therefore we still have witches and
as long as she had one of the shoes she owned half the power of their
the morning; and Dorothy dreamed of the Emerald City, and of the good
corner of the house where the Wicked Witch had been lying.
sad plight of her old friend, and the Lion looking sober and sorry.

what made them; but Toto knew, and he walked close to Dorothy’s side,
She took off her old leather shoes and tried on the silver ones, which
fortunate for Kansas that you have brains.”
sadly. “When I grew up I became a ventriloquist, and at that I was very
stuffed with straw, you know, and that is why I am going to Oz to ask
They told who they were, and the girl soldier went into the Castle.
motioning the others not to touch her.
discouragements; but before them was a lovely, sunny country that
walking with stately strides at Dorothy’s side. Toto did not approve of
that I couldn’t come down again. It went way up above the clouds, so
wonderful adventures they had met with.
the road and divided the forest as far as they could see on either
“We have obeyed you as far as we were able. The Tin Woodman and the
whimpered a little, but none of the others was frightened, and they
around the stuffed man as if he suspected there might be a nest of rats


mark of the Good Witch’s kiss upon her forehead and stopped short,
think it really is an Emerald City, and it certainly is a beautiful

Wicked Witch and too afraid of her not to do as she told them.

good things to eat, and fastened a little bell around Toto’s neck with
is not another city in all the world that is ruled by a stuffed man.”
know. But the people remembered him lovingly, and said to one another:

than being a Scarecrow.”
“What is he like?” asked the girl.
But one day the girl thought of Aunt Em, and said, “We must go back to
if you killed a poor deer, and then my jaws would rust again.”



Palace. It was the sweetest little room in the world, with a soft




cheeks and nodding his head at them saucily, he said:
So Dorothy said good-bye to all her friends except Toto, and taking the
greensward all about, with stately trees bearing rich and luscious
the desert. Good-bye.”
you come on an idle or foolish errand to bother the wise reflections of
thanked her kindly and oiled himself thoroughly with his jeweled
been crushed between the Lion’s great jaws. But after a time he became
of the balloon over the fire so that the hot air that arose from it
Henry, who was a farmer, and Aunt Em, who was the farmer’s wife. Their
The next morning the soldier with the green whiskers led the Lion to
the Woodman at all. And as bees cannot live when their stings are

country of the Munchkins. The Quadlings themselves, who were short and
for the world.”
They thanked him and bade him good-bye, and turned toward the West,


“They are, indeed,” said the Scarecrow, “and I am thankful I am made of
but if it is your wish to return to Kansas, I hope you will find a
courage to keep tramping forever, without getting anywhere at all.”

“Then you must go to the City of Emeralds. Perhaps Oz will help you.”
use to her. As for the Lion, he sniffed the fresh air with delight and

“Why, as for that,” answered Oz, “I think you are wrong to want a
the first branches they bent down and twined around him, and the next
the Woodman and the Scarecrow keeping watch.
So Dorothy went first, holding Toto in her arms, the Tin Woodman
“Let us make a chair with our hands and carry her,” said the Scarecrow.
slender as a wasp’s waist. This gave the Lion a hint of the best way to
was a long journey through a dangerous country, although nearer to the
square green bottle, the contents of which he poured into a green-gold
seeing all these mice around him he gave one bark of delight and jumped
dog that has been running too long.

“Oh, I see,” said the Tin Woodman. “But, after all, brains are not the
“She was the Wicked Witch of the East, as I said,” answered the little
life. So hereafter you must all serve him, and obey his slightest
walking an hour when they saw before them a great ditch that crossed
green.
year, and no one has ever heard me before or come to help me.”
“Oh, no,” answered the Woodman. “I shall not feel it at all.”
air, being carried by a cyclone. So I believe the best way to get

“No more than in any other city,” replied Oz; “but when you wear green
“What is it?” asked the Lion.
being stuffed with straw, it was quite light.

demand to see the Great Oz.”
the Winkies, and gave them sharp spears, telling them to go to the
her lips touched the girl they left a round, shining mark, as Dorothy

“Good-bye,” replied the Princess.
Then Dorothy lost heart. She sat down on the grass and looked at her

again; but when she thought it all over she was glad she had not gone
But the Monkey King shook his head.
that is needed to make one happy. I have been good to the people, and
cottage, and Dorothy entered and found a bed of dried leaves in one
was about her. There were neat fences at the sides of the road, painted


where he gave her a room with a pretty bed in it. The sheets were made

beside it, with an uplifted axe in his hands, was a man made entirely
“Here is a great tree, standing close to the ditch. If the Tin Woodman
and fewer of the other flowers; and soon they found themselves in the
He was quite short and stout and had a big head, which was flat at the
Dorothy leaves this country?”

So after that she took no food to the imprisoned Lion; but every day

“Is there anything we can do,” it asked, “to repay you for saving the

not been lying on the soft bed she might have been hurt. As it was, the
always treated them with great cruelty. They kept this day as a
“I thought you asked Dorothy to kill the Witch,” said the Scarecrow, in

“I have,” said the Scarecrow.
of blue cloth, and Dorothy slept soundly in them till morning, with
we are going to live a little while longer, and I am glad of it, for it
in the midst of a strange people, who, seeing me come from the clouds,
quite satisfied with my lot.”
Monkeys to help them, and find out whether he kept his promises or not.

“Run fast,” said the Scarecrow to the Lion, “and get out of this deadly
have you shown to rooms where you may rest in comfort after your

“Because you wear silver shoes and have killed the Wicked Witch.
Princess, who stopped short as she saw the strangers and started to run
me to.”
At first the little creatures, many though they were, could hardly stir
So the Wicked Witch took the Golden Cap from her cupboard and placed it
that out for yourself.”
them that they were no longer slaves.
babies are waiting in the nest for me. I hope you will find the Emerald
and afterward drive Oz himself out of the Land of the West. Now the
“I cannot tell,” she returned, “but you may come with me, if you like.
“My greatest wish now,” she added, “is to get back to Kansas, for Aunt


﻿
straight from the throne itself; so they walked toward it and stood in
Oz ordered the balloon carried out in front of the Palace, and the
you had known their power you could have gone back to your Aunt Em the
high up above everything the spires and dome of the Palace of Oz.

which they were very much afraid. The people were all dressed in

Wicked Witch dies you will not see your uncle and aunt again. Remember
should go out of this Palace my people would soon discover I am not a
and did not even bark in return.

the bell. After ringing several times, it was opened by the same
country. There were milkmaids and shepherdesses, with brightly colored
“Who are the Munchkins?” inquired Dorothy.


desert?”
“Why should I do this for you?” asked the Lady.
Dorothy’s life became very sad as she grew to understand that it would
another of the Winkies, who was a goldsmith, had made an axe-handle of
Dorothy looked, and gave a little cry of fright. There, indeed, just
“From the Land of Oz,” said Dorothy gravely. “And here is Toto, too.

again set eyes on a Winged Monkey, which we were glad to do, for we

“Come along,” said the Scarecrow heartily, and Dorothy added that she

of the court, all dressed in rich costumes. These people had nothing to
diamonds; and to the Scarecrow they gave a gold-headed walking stick,
shall be glad to serve you in any way in our power, but we cannot cross
dressed in a green uniform and wearing a long green beard.
brings knowledge, and the longer you are on earth the more experience

sharp claws, he knocked the spider’s head from its body. Jumping down,
yellow Wildcat, and the Woodman thought it must be chasing something,
I could only get back to this forest, I would pass my life very happily
down and saw a strange sight.

to breakfast, after which they started again upon their journey.
You will remember there was no road—not even a pathway—between the
in the floor and climbed down the ladder into the small, dark hole.

brains, and a heart also; so, having tried them both, I should much



The Monkeys had set them down near a farmhouse, and the four travelers

my guests, and while you live in the Palace my people will wait upon
bite us?”

“Why should I give you courage?” demanded Oz.
“Where did you get the mark upon your forehead?” continued the voice.

The Tin Woodman appeared to think deeply for a moment. Then he said:


certainly afraid, turned to face the Kalidahs, and then he gave so loud

jar made her catch her breath and wonder what had happened; and Toto
When you came to me, I was willing to promise anything if you would

“I am now worse off than when I first met Dorothy,” he thought. “Then,

with hesitation, “You are very kind, but there must be some mistake. I
“And aren’t you?” she asked.
the mud at the bottom of the river. Then, before he could pull it out
“I am never hungry,” he said, “and it is a lucky thing I am not, for my
open, and they all passed through and found themselves in a high arched
confidentially, “I don’t mind my legs and arms and body being stuffed,
loving comrades.
But, seeing they were bigger than the Lion, and remembering that there
“No one knows it but you four—and myself,” replied Oz. “I have fooled
creature, and very grateful.
“But you shall not!” replied the voice, and there stepped from behind
over the swaying floor to her bed, and lay down upon it; and Toto
before the Woodman.
Aunt Em had just come out of the house to water the cabbages when she
help to you, I am such a fool.”
It was some time before the Cowardly Lion awakened, for he had lain
the truck was a thousand times bigger than any of the mice who were to

stiffly.

of the biggest mice spoke.
“Am I really wonderful?” asked the Scarecrow.
at it so fiercely that he cut it in two. At once the tree began shaking
the air ever since I rusted, and I’m glad to be able to put it down at
to rooms, and each one of them found himself lodged in a very pleasant

“and that is the same thing. See!” she continued, pointing to the
“There is only one thing in the world I am afraid of.”
The Lion and the Woodman both shook their heads, for they did not know.
“Perhaps not,” said the Scarecrow, “for we mean to destroy her.”
told me how to get back to Kansas.”

So, carefully and gently, they lifted Dorothy in their arms and carried
“Rest your brains and do not worry about the wall,” replied the
with his coat sleeve.
So, when they came to a good-sized farmhouse, Dorothy walked boldly up
“I was born in Omaha—”


instead of with brains, as yours is, how am I ever to know anything?”
Dorothy did not know what to say to this, for all the people seemed to
course, if Dorothy stays here she will never get back to Kansas.”

heaps like fine coal that she stamped her foot and tore her hair and

“Hush, my dear,” he said. “Don’t speak so loud, or you will be
killed the Wicked Witch of the East? Dorothy was an innocent, harmless
Dorothy was ready to cry with disappointment. “I have wasted the charm
“But I thought you had gone to visit the Wicked Witch of the West.”
“But could you not be mended?” asked the girl.

So they oiled his legs until he could move them freely; and he thanked
Dorothy reached up both arms and lifted the figure off the pole, for,
carried them. It was a lovely country, with plenty of flowers and fruit
Witch then made the axe slip and cut off my head, and at first I


The cyclone had set the house down very gently—for a cyclone—in the
“We must be very careful here,” said the kind-hearted Woodman, “or we
the Great Oz how to get back to Kansas again.”
green, shining walls of the Emerald City before them. She wondered at
“This must be the Land of Oz,” said Dorothy, “and we are surely getting
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, not being made of flesh, were not
leave her little dog behind. Toto had run into the crowd to bark at a
woman possibly mean by calling her a sorceress, and saying she had
approached, one of them said to her:
in a solemn voice. At once the cap changed to a slate, on which was
Chapter V
“It is kind of you to like a Scarecrow,” he replied. “But surely you
After this she stood upon both feet and cried in a loud voice:
At length, however, she sat up and looked about her.
upon the other end to steady it, and they had long poles in their hands

“Thank you,” he answered. “Now, if you will help me sew the silk
She ate a hearty breakfast, and watched a wee Munchkin baby, who played
thing. This made the Tin Woodman very unhappy, for he was always
coward.”


“And back to Kansas?” she asked eagerly.
this reason none of the Quadlings ever come to the Emerald City.”
to get back to Kansas.” Then she added, “But, if I do, you must give me
“Willingly!” exclaimed Dorothy; “indeed, it is of no use to me now, and
City. But my father went there once, when I was a boy, and he said it
“If I only had a heart, I should love them,” added the Tin Woodman.
“Come along, Toto,” she said. “We will go to the Emerald City and ask
finally spared them, on condition that the Winged Monkeys should ever

force of habit, for he remembered when he was made of flesh; but not
odd-looking dwellings, for each was round, with a big dome for a roof.
The Scarecrow was thinking again, and his head bulged out so horribly

birds and looking at the lovely flowers which now became so thick that
“Your house did, anyway,” replied the little old woman, with a laugh,


to do all in their power for Dorothy, who had set them free from
“Tell me something about yourself and the country you came from,” said
friends were at first dazzled by the brilliancy of the wonderful City.


great desert that surrounds this Land of Oz. I’m afraid, my dear, you
continued the Scarecrow, “we might all be happy together.”

said to be kindly hearted.”
Chapter IV
flew into the cornfield, but as soon as they saw me they flew away
large emeralds set closely together. In the center of the roof was a
wife as soon as possible, the axe slipped all at once and cut off my
whistle twice.
first rock when they heard a rough voice cry out, “Keep back!”
“Why should I do this for you?” asked Oz.
hard task; for the Great Wizard does not like to see anyone, and he
times a wolf was killed, so that at last they all lay dead in a heap
though he may have reached Omaha safely, and be there now, for all we
“Oh, yes; there are thousands,” she replied.
No one did so much as look at the travelers at first, except one little
therefore the modern child seeks only entertainment in its wonder tales

Just then another groan reached their ears, and the sound seemed to
one. If he does, I will go back to the Munchkin maiden and marry her.”
course that is all that is expected of us when we are on mantels and
“And I should have lived a coward forever,” declared the Lion, “and no
The Road Through the Forest
“We did visit her,” said the Scarecrow.
that stood in the middle of the room. It was shaped like a chair and

hopped down at my feet and ate all the corn he wanted. The other birds,
air should get cold the balloon would come down in the desert, and we
“Where is the Emerald City?” he inquired. “And who is Oz?”
At this the Queen of the Mice stuck her head out from underneath a
brighter than he is—when you are well polished—and I am sure you will
that fell between the trees. She ran to the place and then stopped
his little mistress. Toto did not really care whether he was in Kansas
“How long will it be,” the child asked of the Tin Woodman, “before we
“Don’t try, my dear,” he answered. “We should like to keep you with us,

which was east and which was west, and that was the reason they were
desert, and then it should be easy to find your way home.”
At that moment several mice were seen running up as fast as their
the pole I shall be greatly obliged to you.”

“Then I shall never have courage,” declared the Lion.
has returned to her own home, what will become of you?”

on Dorothy’s forehead, for she knew well that neither the Winged

barked after her loudly enough when she had gone, because he had been
not seem to be as friendly as the Munchkins, and I’m afraid we shall be
morning of the second day I awoke and found the balloon floating over a
his advice.”


“That may all be true,” said the Scarecrow, “but I shall be very

and chopped so well that soon he cleared a passage for the entire
But the strangest of all were the people who lived in this queer
When Boq saw her silver shoes he said, “You must be a great sorceress.”
being rocked gently, like a baby in a cradle.
For she was sitting on the broad Kansas prairie, and just before her

yellow brick. When she had gone several miles she thought she would

Golden Cap, whosoever he may be.”
Tin Woodman.”
bringing with them all their tools in baskets, she inquired, “Can you
Thick, woolly hair covered every part of it, and a more

“This forest is perfectly delightful,” declared the Lion, looking
for they immediately took out their handkerchiefs and began to weep
long been out chasing birds around him and squirrels. She sat up and
they all started upon the journey, greatly enjoying the walk through
“It is the same at the South,” said another, “for I have been there and

axe, he marched up to the first tree that had handled the Scarecrow so
Woodman.
heart of its own and therefore cannot feel for me. But if it is the
“I have come for my brains,” remarked the Scarecrow, a little uneasily.

Woodman and the Scarecrow kept watch over them as usual.
“Good gracious!” she cried.
Now the charm began to work. The sky was darkened, and a low rumbling

I should have run myself—I’m such a coward; but just as soon as they
“You are now our ruler,” he said to the Scarecrow; “so you must come
others in the natural history, and for a moment Dorothy was afraid. But

wish for anything ring the bell. Oz will send for you tomorrow
The Ball of Fire burned fiercely for a time, and the voice said, “Bring

yellow brick, she was startled to hear a deep groan near by.
“What did you say?” asked the Scarecrow, who did not know what she was
of it.
harm it. The Tin Woodman knew very well he had no heart, and therefore
stupidly in one spot, just within the doorway, to wait till morning. It
corner. She lay down at once, and with Toto beside her soon fell into a
little girl was unhappy, and that made him unhappy too.
hat, that had belonged to some Munchkin, was perched on his head, and
Chapter II

As they walked on, the green glow became brighter and brighter, and it
be all right again. You will find an oil-can on a shelf in my cottage.”
“No, indeed. I don’t know anything. You see, I am stuffed, so I have no
full length. She was not much hurt, but in her fall one of the Silver
collection of hearts, of all sizes and shapes.”

“I will make a ladder,” said the Tin Woodman, “for we certainly must

green he was completely covered with cracks, running every which way


the forest, and they walked so fast that Dorothy became tired, and had

Scarecrow to rule over us.”
Lion’s back they all managed to scramble to the top. Then the Lion
“This little girl,” said the Scarecrow to the soldier, “wishes to cross
presence.”
“There is only one thing we can do,” returned the Lion, “and that is to
The little girl began to weep, she was so much disappointed; and the
how it can be done.”
among the poppies a long while, breathing in their deadly fragrance;
If Oz will not give you any brains you will be no worse off than you
“Hil-lo, hol-lo, hel-lo!” Dorothy went on, standing this time on her
Oz would give me some brains?”
over the hill and set them down in the beautiful country of the
her swiftly through the air until they came to the castle, where they
brightness of the sun. The window panes were of green glass; even the
felt that she could help him if she would.
they would give her more power than all the other things she had lost.
just the spot the screen had hidden, a little old man, with a bald head


land.
keep the gas in it. I have plenty of silk in the Palace, so it will be
towards the balloon.
Before them stood a little man about the same size as the Munchkins. He
The road was smooth and well paved, now, and the country about was
“What shall we do?” asked the Tin Woodman.

Glinda The Good Witch Grants Dorothy’s Wish
sky above the City had a green tint, and the rays of the sun were
Chapter XX

could see that in spite of his pretty clothes of red and yellow and
was the new farmhouse Uncle Henry built after the cyclone had carried
“Yes, indeed,” answered the child. “I am all tired out.”
“I’m pretty well, thank you,” replied Dorothy politely. “How do you
The false Wizard looked at him carefully.


been good to me. I cannot tell you how grateful I am.”
dominions.”
“There is no road,” answered the Guardian of the Gates. “No one ever
of tin nor straw, and could not live unless she was fed.
anyone who is our friend. If you will help us to save him I promise
Chapter XXIII
that she would not be hungry for a long time. She thought this was very
But the pretty milkmaid was much too vexed to make any answer. She
caught the four travelers and Toto up in their arms and flew away with
her companion from death. She had grown so fond of the big Lion she was
“Come back!” she screamed. “I want to go, too!”
girl. When I began chopping again, my axe slipped and cut off my right
sent the Winged Monkeys to bring them to her. It was much harder to
so much, for the fall would not hurt me at all.”

makes one forget he is afraid.”


“If Oz had taken a dose of the same courage he gave me,” added the


dreadful-looking monster could not be imagined. It was fortunate the


wonderful sight.

They left the cottage and walked through the trees until they found a

woodchopper, and after my father died I took care of my old mother as
“Because that isn’t the way we Lions do these things,” he replied. Then
witch.”
you bear upon your forehead the mark of the Good Witch’s kiss, and that
“I don’t know, I’m sure. To think of your striking a stuffed man, like
She was both beautiful and young to their eyes. Her hair was a rich red
The Search for the Wicked Witch
walked to the Throne Room and knocked at the door.
Yet the old time fairy tale, having served for generations, may now be
“Oh, indeed!” exclaimed the man. “Are you sure that Oz will see you?”
that she had really melted away to nothing, Dorothy drew another bucket
She threw her arms around the Lion’s neck and kissed him, patting his

may thereafter be free for evermore.”
“See what you have done!” she screamed. “In a minute I shall melt
put a few brains into his head,” she replied.
thick woods. The road was still paved with yellow brick, but these were
closing the trap door so that no more accidents could happen.
about the charm of the Golden Cap, but she saw that it was pretty, so

barking furiously.
There was a bell beside the gate, and Dorothy pushed the button and
tall, rank grass. It was difficult to walk without falling into muddy
I advise you to drink it as soon as possible.”
them forever.”
who had lived so long on the dry, gray prairies.
Then, being prepared for the journey, they all started for the Emerald
So they all entered the house, where there were, besides the woman, two
threatened to beat her with the same old umbrella she always carried in
often that he is mended in a hundred places, and doesn’t look at all

remained all night staring at a little spider which was weaving its web
opened her basket and got out some bread. She offered a piece to the
where Dorothy had hit it.
the wolves came on the Tin Woodman swung his arm and chopped the wolf’s

“Very well,” said the Queen, “we trust you. But what shall we do?”
“Who are you?” asked the Scarecrow.

oil-can, to guard against mishap.

best to be done, and now he asked the Woodman to chop away the end of
with the old woman, waiting for me to come after her.
counterpane. There was a tiny fountain in the middle of the room, that


Therefore it was decided to start upon their journey the next morning,
“Oh, yes. Some of us are very good tinsmiths,” they told her.

they remembered how badly the Winged Monkeys had treated them before;

more afraid of you than you are of him.”
the cupboard and cut herself some bread, which she spread with butter.
The eyes winked three times, and then they turned up to the ceiling and
it glued on again. What do you mean by coming here and frightening my
Toto had jumped out of her arms and was running toward the barn,
Presently they heard a solemn Voice, that seemed to come from somewhere
“I am anxious to get back to my aunt and uncle, for I am sure they will
being able to sleep, he passed the night moving his joints up and down

when it faces danger. The True courage is in facing danger when you are
dog in her arms followed the green girl through seven passages and up
the heavily loaded truck; but the Woodman and the Scarecrow both pushed
new heart.
 Chapter I. The Cyclone
them. The Guardian of the Gates found a pair that would just fit
flower bed as soon as you can. We will bring the little girl with us,
fierce, and may not allow you to destroy her. Keep to the West, where
The Country of the Quadlings
raise his axe another wolf came up, and he also fell under the sharp
He went to a cupboard and reaching up to a high shelf took down a
Dorothy had only one other dress, but that happened to be clean and was
What worried her most was that the bread was nearly gone, and another
Dorothy lived in the midst of the great Kansas prairies, with Uncle



and blue; and although the blue was somewhat faded with many washings,
up and noticed that the house was not moving; nor was it dark, for the

dreadful beasts.”

At once there came running to her from all directions a pack of great
“Did you speak?” asked the girl, in wonder.
barked at them in a tiny voice, afterwards running away again.


Scarecrow.

“What are your commands?” inquired the King of the Monkeys, bowing low.
carry you in my basket.”
“I never thought of that!” said Dorothy joyfully. “It’s just the thing.
but they saw that no harm was intended, so they rode through the air
“‘I wonder if that farmer thought to fool me in this clumsy manner. Any
“But if you are going to call the Winged Monkeys we must run away, for

they had grown so fond of the Tin Woodman that they begged him to stay
“We shan’t wait a day longer,” said the Scarecrow.
will make her put on mourning; and unless the crops are better this
missing altogether, leaving holes that Toto jumped across and Dorothy
where Dorothy’s first act was to call all the Winkies together and tell
green, but pure white. The ribbon around Toto’s neck had also lost its
morning.”
her.”
the Scarecrow brought Dorothy some fruit from a tree near by, which she
She closed the door, locked it, and put the key carefully in the pocket
The Queen of the Field Mice
and mouth, and was much bigger than the head of the biggest giant.
castle, where they were stuffed with nice, clean straw; and behold!
seeing he was not harmed by me, came to eat the corn too, so in a short
Munchkins in the land, and his friends were gathered with him to
celebrate their freedom from the bondage of the Wicked Witch.
to come any nearer. But the King Crow said:
“That’s all right,” said the Scarecrow. “You are quite welcome to take
“Oh, he will see you,” said the soldier who had taken her message to
lived in the forest near Gayelette’s palace, and the old fellow loved a
The other trees of the forest did nothing to keep them back, so they
joke better than a good dinner. One day, just before the wedding, my
the crows, at any rate. But surely there is no use for a Scarecrow
of yellow brick and turned again toward the Emerald City where the
for him. “If you will come with me I’ll ask Oz to do all he can for
really be very unhappy unless you give me the sort of courage that
trick that would give her what she wanted. She placed a bar of iron in


her ears; and she still looked at the little girl with wonder that she
with a great many pins and needles. Having shaken them together
until you do as I wish.”
signal. You must go into the Throne Room alone.”


slaves had been scared away by the Cowardly Lion, she saw there was
soon after they had begun their journey again they came to a place
And the Wicked Witch said to the King Crow, “Fly at once to the
about it, if you wish.”
“If I cannot harness you,” said the Witch to the Lion, speaking through
looked so ugly that its foe turned up his nose in disgust. Its legs
“How can I get to her castle?” asked Dorothy.
preferred a bed of dried leaves in the forest, and did not like being
to darken the sky.
The man was so surprised at this answer that he sat down to think it
having been made such a little while before. Many crows and other birds
kind and thoughtful of the Scarecrow, but she laughed heartily at the
cornfield.”

careful not to hurt any living creature; and as he walked along he wept
She lifted me from the pole in the cornfield and brought me to the
afraid even to growl while she stood by.
perhaps he will dream that he has found courage at last.”
Dorothy, and then shook their heads.

used to; but neither were they very small. In fact, they seemed about

Emerald City belong to us, and we can do just as we please. When I

have never seen him.”
Even with eyes protected by the green spectacles, Dorothy and her


two halves. Once more the tinsmith came to my help and made me a body
enemy and bring peace to all the animals of the forest once more.”
desert, unless it is Oz himself.”
up and would not see any of them.

The Wonderful Wizard of Oz

by carefully picking their way, they got safely along until they
“I feel wise indeed,” he answered earnestly. “When I get used to my
wolves and her wild crows and her stinging bees were gone, and her
lucky it was you brought away that wonderful Cap!”
expect me to send you back to Kansas unless you do something for me in


with brains. I cannot tell you how to use them, however; you must find
bite him.
Scarecrow; for when he found himself alone in his room he stood
found out soon after.
The little old woman took the slate from her nose, and having read the
hill as if he had been struck by a cannon ball.
This ended the saying of the charm, and they heard a great chattering
the sky in all directions. The sun had baked the plowed land into a
wailing, despairing voice.


    You’re quite as stiff
Then he put down his axe and sat beside the Scarecrow, who said, “It
rose into the air and were out of sight in a twinkling.
and across the pretty bridges until they saw before them a very
where the Scarecrow was perched upon his pole. Then the Stork with her
I must have time to think it over.”
“Oh, your Majesty, we thought you would be killed! How did you manage
“Exactly so!” declared the little man, rubbing his hands together as if
“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible,” said the little man, in a trembling

surprise.
“Why not?” she replied.
the straw I am stuffed with would come out, and that would spoil the
When it was all ready, Oz sent word to his people that he was going to
little girl would who had been suddenly whisked away from her own
herself in the clean gingham, and tied her pink sunbonnet on her head.

chopped off the branch and set the little dog free.

were lying in heaps and drying up, and she had used up all the power of


where Dorothy and her friends were walking.
answered earnestly. “I don’t like your country, although it is so
things around in little green carts, which they pushed before them.
“What can I do for you?” she inquired softly, for she was moved by the
a raft, and while he was busy at this the Scarecrow found on the
rather dizzy when Dorothy picked him up.

Kansas—but not before.”
confidence in yourself. There is no living thing that is not afraid
“And I think I shall need their service just those three times,”

favorite color.


“Look!”
carry with them.


away and left me alone.
He leaned on his axe and thought a moment. Then he said, “The Winkies
“But, I don’t understand,” said Dorothy, in bewilderment. “How was it

rough boots, and he looked stern and solemn, and rarely spoke.


required brains to figure it out, I never should have said it.”
in surprise.
you had brains in your head, instead of straw.”


he said; and the Scarecrow agreed with him. So they kept walking until
So the Woodman went at once to the trees and began to work; and he soon
into his best shape, and the Woodman polished his tin and oiled his
“Where is this city?” asked Dorothy.
said to her. “There is no hope for me,” she said sadly, “for Oz will
steps, when Dorothy discovered something shining in a ray of sunshine
Shoes had fallen off in her flight through the air, and were lost
As Dorothy bade the good-natured Guardian a last farewell she said:
They found the forest very thick on this side, and it looked dark and



“Have you any?” inquired the Scarecrow.
Then she went back to the house, and having helped herself and Toto to
“It is, indeed!” replied the Woodman, who was greatly pleased. “But is
All this time Dorothy and her companions had been walking through the
and even those who wait upon him do not see him face to face.”


The Lion at once passed through the door, and glancing around saw, to
are now.”


There was, in her cupboard, a Golden Cap, with a circle of diamonds and
lying asleep, with her friends all about her. They were a long distance
the Wizard was riding in the basket, rising every moment farther and
The country of the Quadlings seemed rich and happy. There was field
that the pail was lying in several small pieces, while the poor

“LET DOROTHY GO TO THE CITY OF EMERALDS”
them was no higher than Dorothy’s knee.
“Ep-pe, pep-pe, kak-ke!”


room; and this room contained a rusty looking cookstove, a cupboard for
“How about my heart?” asked the Tin Woodman.
“which he has covered with a golden plate, to keep it from running
Attacked by the Fighting Trees
“I suppose there are,” returned the Lion, “but I do not see any of them
to cross the hill of the Hammer-Heads.”
“I’m sorry,” said the Scarecrow. “The Lion was a very good comrade for
love who has not a heart, and so I am resolved to ask Oz to give me

small pieces.”
little bells around the brims that tinkled sweetly as they moved. The
wound many coils about his body and head and legs, until he was unable
“‘Swim out, my fine fellow,’ cried my grandfather, ‘and see if the
the poor Scarecrow!”
from her long sleep and opened her eyes. She was greatly astonished to

The house whirled around two or three times and rose slowly through the
laughed, when he came to the top of the water, and swam in to shore.
you like it or not,” and he walked boldly forward.
scarcely wait till I get to Oz, and you must admit this is a very long
“That will be a hard climb,” said the Scarecrow, “but we must get over
When they reached the castle Dorothy said to the Winkies:
may converse with me.” Indeed, the Voice seemed just then to come
voice and went to the Throne Room, where he rapped upon the door.

Promptly at nine o’clock the next morning the green-whiskered soldier
“Ah,” said the Tin Woodman sadly, “I wish I had a heart to beat.”
came to them, and four minutes later they all went into the Throne Room
edge of the Tin Woodman’s weapon. There were forty wolves, and forty
thoroughly, he filled the top of the Scarecrow’s head with the mixture

He bade his comrades good-bye and marched proudly away to do battle
Straightway a great flock of wild crows came flying toward her, enough
untiring as the Tin Woodman, and when night came the work was not done.
walked up to it, while Toto ran around the pole and barked.
 Chapter XX. The Dainty China Country
“I do not know,” answered Boq gravely, “for I have never been there. It

you.”
Dorothy thought, were about as old as Uncle Henry, for two of them had
other side. They were all greatly pleased to see how easily he did it,
“No,” she answered, “one is of tin, and one of straw; one is a girl and
and boots and clothes into a small bundle and threw it into the top

“That is easily done,” replied the Scarecrow. “The Tin Woodman must
and she had never killed anything in all her life.
they passed on through the gate into the Emerald City. When the people

saving my life,” added the Queen.
people make me do things that everybody knows can’t be done? It was
and branches. Shall we go there?”
flowers were too strong for me. How did you get me out?”
green girl, who was very kind to them, filled Dorothy’s basket with
and soon saw a beautiful green glow in the sky just before them.
Dorothy was going to ask another question, but just then the Munchkins,
Witch:
“I always like to help anyone in trouble. But I must go now, for my
branches immediately seized him and tossed him back again.
Scarecrow. “I might have passed my whole life in the farmer’s
fitted her as well as if they had been made for her.

really cannot be called courage until you have swallowed it. Therefore
“We will do that gladly,” returned the tiger; and all the other beasts
however, she found a boy who was handsome and manly and wise beyond his
for my heart.”
Cowardly Lion, who is asleep in the poppy bed.”


ever. So they started upon their journey once more.
and green the moss is that clings to these old trees. Surely no wild
I’m sorry I had to put a patch on your breast, but it really couldn’t

cried out, “Who are you?”

thinking she might steal them. But the child was so proud of her pretty
    “My lady fair,
Shoes came off; and before she could reach it, the Witch had snatched

afraid, and that kind of courage you have in plenty.”
mouth, where he eats it as a spider does a fly. Not one of us is safe
about.”
“Well,” said the Cowardly Lion, drawing a long breath of relief, “I see
They walked back to the road. Dorothy helped him over the fence, and
looked at Dorothy and her strangely assorted company with wondering
brains at all,” he answered sadly.
and the Woodman sharpened his axe on a green grindstone and had all his
The tinsmiths looked the Woodman over carefully and then answered that


The Rescue
after sending them to undergo hardships and slavery. So the Scarecrow
They went to bed quite early and slept soundly until daylight, when
full of hope, and Dorothy breakfasted like a princess off peaches and
So they all lay upon the ground except the Scarecrow, and he stood up
now. When Dorothy, who was an orphan, first came to her, Aunt Em had
on it, and were drawn swiftly by their queer little horses to the place

“Because I ask it, and you alone can grant my request,” answered the
beetle that was crawling along the road, and killed the poor little
broken that was the end of the black bees, and they lay scattered thick
“Is he made of tin, or stuffed?” asked the Lion.

happiness to childish hearts than all other human creations.
“Oh, no. They must obey the wearer of the Cap. Good-bye!” And she
Dorothy said nothing. Oz had not kept the promise he made her, but he
girl a good-bye kiss, and Dorothy thanked her for all the kindness she
“This funny tin man,” she answered, “killed the Wildcat and saved my
First they came to a great hall in which were many ladies and gentlemen
The Lion Becomes the King of Beasts
beginning to cry.
“Are you not going to make them your slaves?” asked the leader of the

only do away with the other Witch; but, now that you have melted her, I

there, and now I am anxious for a chance to show the other beasts how

“And she let you go again?” asked the man, in wonder.


“Oh, yes,” said the girl, “and he is a great coward, too. He will be

had been trying to think, but could not because his head was stuffed
was true enough.

woman who did not want her to marry anyone, for she was so lazy she
“Perhaps,” said the Lion thoughtfully, “if I had no heart I should not
reach the Winged Monkeys, which carried Dorothy and her comrades safely

wrong. But the Scarecrow seized the oil-can from Dorothy’s basket and

airtight, after which he announced that the balloon was ready.
“That is a long story,” answered the King, with a winged laugh; “but as
long as she lived. Then I made up my mind that instead of living alone
“I didn’t know there was a charm,” answered Dorothy, in surprise. “What
Stork.
beautiful Castle. Before the gates were three young girls, dressed in
the order to start, for she feared if the mice stayed among the poppies
to keep him from stumbling; and to the Tin Woodman they offered a

judged by their snarling and growling that they were in great trouble.


will protect you from harm.”
of fear for herself and Toto. Once the Witch struck Toto a blow with


“Yes, and a quick way out of our troubles,” replied the Lion. “How

So they called the yellow Winkies and asked them if they would help to


Thereafter he walked very carefully, with his eyes on the road, and
Finally she picked up her basket.
carry I shall have to drop him in the river again.”
The Lion thought for a moment.
heard from the Guardian of the Gates that Dorothy had melted the Wicked

“Congratulate me. I am going to Oz to get my brains at last. When I

them as they come.”

even if he was a bad Wizard.
wood, in which were gathered hundreds of beasts of every variety. There
“Why do you want water?” he asked.

rather live there than in any other country, be it ever so beautiful.


So they picked up Toto and put the dog in Dorothy’s lap, and then they
So the Lion aroused himself and bounded forward as fast as he could go.

country.”

forever in the desert.
beautiful Emerald City, and now he is gone he has left the Wise
“Because,” answered the Princess, also stopping, a safe distance away,

all the strips together, but when it was finished they had a big bag of
strangers; peck out their eyes and tear them to pieces.”
was soon chopped nearly through. Then the Lion put his strong front
“One of my greatest fears was the Witches, for while I had no magical
followed, and the Scarecrow came next. The Lion, although he was
“I suppose so. I’ve never looked to see,” replied the Lion.
would do next. Without stopping an instant the fierce beasts also began
through the forest he seizes an animal with a leg and drags it to his
made the four wheels out of short pieces of a big tree trunk. So fast
her arms. When the Cowardly Lion stepped upon the raft it tipped badly,

 Chapter XIV. The Winged Monkeys



the brains you so greatly desire.”


hands were so clumsy and the nuts were so small that he dropped almost
quickly in the sun. That is the end of her. But the silver shoes are
like to go back to Kansas.”
hard, for he knew the Monkeys would drown in the river with their wings
away.
poison of the flowers, and here they laid her gently on the soft grass
build us a raft, so we can float to the other side.”


air until they were over a country thickly covered with sharp rocks.
of his tail. “It is my great sorrow, and makes my life very unhappy.

them, never fear!”


“We wish to pass the night with you, if you will allow us,” answered
of the forest, and the Lion whispered to them that it was in this part
to get him up on the truck. Then the Queen hurriedly gave her people
after all; but the old crow comforted me, saying, ‘If you only had
“They surely will never do for a long journey, Toto,” she said. And
grass coming from that direction also.
better man than some of them. Brains are the only things worth having
know where Kansas is, for I have never heard that country mentioned
“If it won’t float,” remarked Dorothy, “it will be of no use to us.”
you should wish to leave this beautiful country and go back to the dry,
“who is always trying to stand upon his head. He has broken himself so

the Castle, where Dorothy washed her face and combed her hair, and the
purple china dog with an extra-large head, which came to the wall and


When they returned to the castle the Wicked Witch beat them well with a
“He is a good Wizard. Whether he is a man or not I cannot tell, for I
had been cut.
her; so I set to work harder than ever. But the girl lived with an old


biggest and kindest and most loving heart in all the Land of Oz.”
country of the West, and the ground was untilled.
Dorothy found herself riding easily between two of the biggest Monkeys,
and fast from terror. But being only tin, the Woodman was not at all

 Chapter XXI. The Lion Becomes the King of Beasts
Wizard, I must admit.”
ruled here, or I should have set the people free myself.”
“Well, that’s respect, I expect,” declared the Clown, and immediately
Head, made out of many thicknesses of paper, and with a carefully
“Don’t mind Toto,” said Dorothy to her new friend. “He never bites.”

order they were given. But no person could command these strange
“Does he never go out?” asked the Scarecrow.
they were awakened by the crowing of a green cock that lived in the
more logs and fastened them together with wooden pins, they were ready

Throne Room and tell Oz you are here.”

It was a bit of good luck to have their new comrade join the party, for
The next morning, as soon as the sun was up, they started on their way,
The soldier now blew upon a green whistle, and at once a young girl,




“How shall we cross the river?” asked Dorothy.

put the straw back into the Scarecrow again, until he was as good as
the Scarecrow bent them carefully until they were quite free from rust
“Come on!” he shouted to the others. “Be quick!” They all ran forward
across the desert will be through the air. Now, it is quite beyond my


After an hour or so the light faded away, and they found themselves
head and found that it fitted her exactly. She did not know anything
brick, silently wondering, each in his own mind, if ever they would





“We must hurry and get back to the road of yellow brick before dark,”
asleep among the poppies. The flowers had been too strong for the huge
briskly toward the Emerald City, her silver shoes tinkling merrily on
Wizard, and then they would be vexed with me for having deceived them.

solid gold and fitted it to the Woodman’s axe, instead of the old
of the Great Oz.
straight ahead, and so stepped into the holes and fell at full length

They walked along listening to the singing of the brightly colored
Scarecrow, “What will you do when Dorothy has left us?”
“Ep-pe, pep-pe, kak-ke!” she said, standing on her left foot.
Thereupon the Wicked Witch enchanted my axe, and when I was chopping

are out of the forest?”

one so cowardly. But let us go on.”
The Lion ate some of the porridge, but did not care for it, saying it

I’m sure it’s somewhere.”
“And you promised to give me a heart,” said the Tin Woodman.
“What is it?” asked the little old woman, and looked, and began to

rather have a heart.”
cannot leave it. There has never been a Winged Monkey in Kansas yet,

in the left side of the Tin Woodman’s breast. Then, going to a chest of
is it?”
shut the gate again.
me to see him whirl around so. Is the other one stuffed also?”
grant your wish. Now go, and do not seek me again until you have earned
Scarecrow, “for my head is stuffed with straw.”

“Something must be done to save us. I think I can swim to the shore and
“Good-bye!” shouted everyone, and all eyes were turned upward to where
“That is a first-rate idea,” said the Lion. “One would almost suspect
“Your commands shall be obeyed,” said the leader. Then, with a great
was bathing. Indeed, the old Witch never touched water, nor ever let
“This at first seemed a great misfortune, for I knew a one-legged man
either side of his funny, wee nose. Toto played all day long, and
could tear me in two as easily as I could kill Toto. I’m terribly
milkmaid had a nick in her left elbow.
Dorothy looked at her in wonder, the Witch began to shrink and fall
Dorothy looked at him in amazement, and so did the Scarecrow, while


There were only four witches in all the Land of Oz, and two of them,
made a chair with their hands for the seat and their arms for the arms
glowing he could scarcely bear to gaze upon it. His first thought was


“It seems gloomy,” said the Scarecrow.
“And I shall never see Aunt Em and Uncle Henry,” said Dorothy,



The little girl gave a cry of amazement and looked about her, her eyes
In the morning they traveled on until they came to a thick wood. There

frightened at this and made many motions to Dorothy to relieve him, but

turn. The leader of the Winged Monkeys flew up to her, his long, hairy

started on her journey.
not care whether I married her or not. I suppose she is still living

beast could wish a pleasanter home.”
promised her two sheep and a cow if she would prevent the marriage.
“It is not a great way,” answered the farmer’s wife. “Take the road to
leave her until she starts back to Kansas for good and all.”
of you, as she has of the rest. But take care; for she is wicked and
if you will kindly wipe away my tears, so that I shall not rust.”

In a wardrobe were many green dresses, made of silk and satin and
“But who was she?” asked Dorothy.
“Melted! Well, that is good news, indeed,” said the man. “Who melted
the distance carefully in his mind.

Dorothy was thinking so earnestly as they walked along that she did not
“The trees seem to have made up their minds to fight us, and stop our
that stretched about the Emerald City on every side. They slept that
we have a long journey before us, I will pass the time by telling you
bodices and golden spots all over their gowns; and princesses with most
speak, and to see him bow and walk along beside her.
mortals I am invisible. I will now seat myself upon my throne, that you
right into the middle of the group. Toto had always loved to chase mice
They had just started to cross this queer bridge when a sharp growl

held Toto tightly lest he should run after her and frighten her.
“He isn’t heavy a bit,” said Dorothy eagerly, “for he is stuffed with

will be the wisest man in all the Land of Oz.”
the mark upon your forehead, and he decided he would admit you to his
gate, all studded with emeralds that glittered so in the sun that even
Dorothy stood up and found she was in her stocking-feet. For the Silver
looks like a bird; and some say he looks like an elephant; and some say


away she saw a Scarecrow, placed high on a pole to keep the birds from
more than ever to get back to Kansas.

So the Woodman raised his axe, and as the Wildcat ran by he gave it a
will tell you all about it.”
Guardian of the Gates they had met before.
But the Lion went away into the forest and found his own supper, and no
dry bread will not stick in my throat.”

there are many of these flowers together their odor is so powerful that
to Toto. Toto only wagged his tail; for, strange to say, he could not

corner of the house. “There are her two feet, still sticking out from
“Why, don’t you know?” she returned, in surprise.
“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible. Who are you, and why do you seek me?”


riverbank a tree full of fine fruit. This pleased Dorothy, who had
But the raft was nearly done, and after the Tin Woodman had cut a few
Scarecrow; “it is important. And we have been told that Oz is a good
“Glinda might,” he suggested.
from the ceiling. It was really a ball of cotton, but when oil was
Everyone seemed happy and contented and prosperous.
 Chapter VI.  The Cowardly Lion
Fortunately, the Witches of the North and South were good, and I knew

people have worn green glasses on their eyes so long that most of them


able to raise large crops. Once in a while she would pass a house, and

Dorothy wept bitterly at the passing of her hope to get home to Kansas


were drawn out of the current, and then Dorothy took the Tin Woodman’s
through the window, followed by all his band.
joints would not be rusted. At the same time her own tears fell thick
and I come to you praying that you will put brains in my head instead
that country, where the Winkies live, is ruled by the Wicked Witch of
Of course each one of them expected to see the Wizard in the shape he
But when the Woodman entered the great Throne Room he saw neither the
“Here is another space between the trees,” called the Lion.
“I want him to send me back to Kansas, and the Scarecrow wants him to
“I think you are a very bad man,” said Dorothy.
Chapter XVIII
she came to the gate at noon and asked, “Are you ready to be harnessed
“Thank you,” replied the girl; “that is very kind of Oz.”
spectacles on all the people, so that everything they saw was green.”
fastened to them that passed around the back of her head, where they

“Doesn’t anyone else know you’re a humbug?” asked Dorothy.
“Do you think,” he asked, “if I go to the Emerald City with you, that
warmed her and made her feel less lonely. She and Toto ate the last of
was keeping him up so that he could not fall. She crept to the hole,

The great spider was lying asleep when the Lion found him, and it
nuts at the people who walked in the forest. But we were careless and
the leaves and branches. He fastened it together with wooden pegs and

Monkey seized Toto and flew after them, although the dog tried hard to
Witch died. I am fond of the Winkies, and if I could get back again to

deer for you. You can roast it by the fire, since your tastes are so
The Lion went back to the opening where the beasts of the forest were
“Can’t you get down?” asked Dorothy.

Throne Room every morning, although they were never permitted to see
that was paved with yellow brick.

I will bear all the unhappiness without a murmur, if you will give me
Scarecrow fell off the wall and the others jumped down upon him so that
have had it at your backs all this time.” Then she noticed Dorothy’s
Our friends looked at him in surprise and dismay.

could not take them off had she wished, but of course she did not wish
vexation, and shot their heads high in the air, but they could not

and the house shook so hard that she lost her footing and sat down

Chapter XIII
followed by all his band.

Dorothy.
During the rest of that day there was no other adventure to mar the

him as he sat behind his screen and gave him your message. He said he
How Dorothy Saved the Scarecrow
Dorothy now took Toto up solemnly in her arms, and having said one last
when the second eye was done I could see much better than before. Then
wish.”
Chapter XXIV
made to work hard during many years for the Wicked Witch, who had
but now that you have killed one of them, there is but one Wicked Witch
When she had tired watching the dancing, Boq led her into the house,

The sun shone brightly as our friends turned their faces toward the
frightened at facing a real witch. “Oh, no, that is a great mistake.

they went the more dismal and lonesome the country became.

some supper and a place to sleep.”
which were here very uneven. Sometimes, indeed, they were broken or


forest, for there were no houses near. The tree made a good, thick
heart. It makes most people unhappy. If you only knew it, you are in
As the Monkey King finished his story Dorothy looked down and saw the
“That is proof that he is sharp,” remarked the Lion.
side of the road. Indeed he was obliged to call to her to help him up

When she had finished her meal, and was about to go back to the road of
road of yellow brick. It was almost dark under the trees, for the
were dancing. Five little fiddlers played as loudly as possible, and
“Don’t chase me! Don’t chase me!”
“How can I get there?” asked Dorothy.

The four travelers walked with ease through the trees until they came

travelers went in search of the Witch she had seen them coming, and so
the journey to the City of Emeralds.
woman could wish. When he grew to manhood, Quelala, as he was called,
his surprise, that before the throne was a Ball of Fire, so fierce and

“He knew how to give me brains, and very good brains, too,” said the
they all followed him. He pointed to one corner, in which lay the great

Great Oz dwelt.
“Oh, thank you! Thank you ever so much for saving my life.”
entered the back room and took up a measure of bran, which he mixed
bran-new brains.”


“Because you are strong and I am weak; because you are a Great Wizard
wicked that the blood in her had dried up many years before.
and a bowl of milk for Toto.
“Well,” said the woman, after thinking it over and taking another peep
“Oh,” said Dorothy, “I’m awfully sorry for you.”



of the Quadlings.”
“I am terribly afraid of falling, myself,” said the Cowardly Lion, “but
Witch, “so you cannot miss it. When you get to Oz do not be afraid of
“We have lost our way,” said Dorothy. “Can you tell us where the
gray mass, with little cracks running through it. Even the grass was
Suddenly Uncle Henry stood up.
“Make yourself perfectly at home,” said the green girl, “and if you

house was small, for the lumber to build it had to be carried by wagon

“I am Dorothy, the Small and Meek. I have come to you for help.”
their heads, wearing ermine robes and satin doublets; and funny clowns
When Dorothy had time to open these books she found them full of queer
the bees turned and flew rapidly until they came to where Dorothy and
“Never. He sits day after day in the great Throne Room of his Palace,
“A Lion!” cried the little Queen. “Why, he would eat us all up.”
“Oh, let us start for the Emerald City tomorrow!”


“And I shall get back to Kansas,” cried Dorothy, clapping her hands.



for the place where it would be easiest to get into the forest.
Some of the Monkeys seized the Tin Woodman and carried him through the

paw he sent the Scarecrow spinning over and over to the edge of the

scarecrows in Kansas ever wink; but presently the figure nodded its
The Tin Woodman was about to reply when he heard a low growl, and
knew the most, and they all started away. They traveled that day and
Glinda the Good stepped down from her ruby throne to give the little

“If he wasn’t so big and heavy I would get him for you,” remarked the
again.”
bright sunshine came in at the window, flooding the little room. She

“That is true,” agreed the Woodman. “My axe may be of service to her;
“Well, then, what can be done?” inquired the Woodman.
the Great Wizard, he might be angry and destroy you all in an instant.”
iron invisible to human eyes. So that when Dorothy walked across the

“And I thought Oz was a terrible Beast,” said the Tin Woodman.
“Just to amuse myself, and keep the good people busy, I ordered them to
looked sharply at the queer party.

hill. Almost as quickly as it came the head went back to the body, and
green girl, who showed each of them to their old rooms at once, so they
one of the most curious things about them is that they can carry you to
Dorothy thought she would go next; so she took Toto in her arms and

under the corner of the great beam the house rested on, two feet were
the heartaches and nightmares are left out.
“Very well, I will give you that sort of courage tomorrow,” replied Oz.
sounds made the little girl’s heart beat fast, for she did not know

which had also been stuffed with straw. On the feet were some old boots
“I’m not surprised that you are,” returned Dorothy. “They must be
“My darling child!” she cried, folding the little girl in her arms and
Thus each of the little party was satisfied except Dorothy, who longed
trees to offer them shade; so that before night Dorothy and Toto and

The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman and the Lion now thanked the Good

Thanking the good woman, they started afresh and walked by the fields

strange creatures set the travelers down carefully before the gate of
“Nothing that I know of,” answered the Woodman; but the Scarecrow, who


cabinets and drawing-room tables, but our lives are much pleasanter
“That is where the Good Witch of the North kissed me when she bade me
and kettles and sweep the floor and keep the fire fed with wood.
people dance.
“We wish to go to the Emerald City,” said the child, “and we have lost
walked with them as far as the gate. When the Guardian of the Gate saw
“The North is my home,” said the old lady, “and at its edge is the same
water’s edge.


useless to fight people with shooting heads; no one can withstand
“She was so old,” explained the Witch of the North, “that she dried up
whiskers, and he crept back tremblingly to a spot nearer the door.
“Where did you get the silver shoes?”
Away to the South


She thought she must have been mistaken at first, for none of the
The people greeted Dorothy kindly, and invited her to supper and to
Indeed, a jolly little clown came walking toward them, and Dorothy
of silk into proper shape the girl sewed them neatly together. First
“Be careful!” cried the green girl. “The tears will fall on your green

The soldier had the news carried straight to Oz that Dorothy and the
go.”
“Be quiet, sir!” said the Princess. “Can’t you see these are strangers,
When it was daylight, the girl bathed her face in a little rippling

“After the crows had gone I thought this over, and decided I would try
hard to get some brains. By good luck you came along and pulled me off
should be lost.”

over. He will be glad to give you some.”
has broken her leg, and I must take her to the mender’s shop and have
“There,” said he; “now you have a heart that any man might be proud of.
carried them a long way past the road of yellow brick that led to the

left as far as they could see; and, besides, they did not dare change

Chapter I
little spring of clear water, where Dorothy drank and bathed and ate
will promise. If you will kill for me the Wicked Witch of the West, I

decide how to take care of ourselves when you came among us.”
They now turned and took a last look at the Emerald City. All they
after a long and tiresome walk through the underbrush they entered

that before?”
“Why didn’t you walk around the hole?” asked the Tin Woodman.
The field mouse, now that it was freed from its enemy, stopped short;
“Why are those needles and pins sticking out of your head?” asked the
into a big room where the Witch Glinda sat upon a throne of rubies.
long as I have my oil-can, and nothing can hurt the Scarecrow, while


One of the big trees had been partly chopped through, and standing
The Tin Woodman, raising his axe, rushed toward the little man and

These houses were quite small, the biggest of them reaching only as
the people were laughing and singing, while a big table near by was
was going on. There was another Munchkin with him, and the first thing
So they found a cozy place under the trees where they slept well until
friends.



So they passed through the Palace Gates and were led into a big room
said the Lion, “I should be quite happy.”



axe slip again, so that it cut right through my body, splitting me into


the Scarecrow brains.”


gray place you call Kansas.”
“Full of courage,” replied the Lion, who went joyfully back to his
walked around. As for the Scarecrow, having no brains, he walked
shape of my head.”

truth. Then Oz asked, “What do you wish me to do?”
At that moment Dorothy saw lying on the table the silver shoes that had
 Introduction
set her down upon the front doorstep. Then the leader said to the

grant my request,” answered the Lion.
and as good as new.
and started upon their journey.
“This I hung from the ceiling by a wire,” said Oz. “I stood behind the
Head; so she took courage and answered:
was when I heard your house had fallen on the Wicked Witch of the East.
They were obliged to camp out that night under a large tree in the

safely down they picked up the Scarecrow, whose body was quite
the Woodman was not a vain man he did not mind the patches at all.

dismay. “The house must have fallen on her. Whatever shall we do?”
“And why is that?” asked the Scarecrow.

“This will serve me a lesson,” said he, “to look where I step. For if I
Head nor the Lady, for Oz had taken the shape of a most terrible Beast.
She bade her friends good-bye, and again started along the road of
the water they could see the road of yellow brick running through a
the following story:
of us were rather too full of mischief at times, flying down to pull
“I shall be glad to hear it,” she replied.
was raised above the stalks of corn by means of the pole stuck up its
“Dear me,” said the Voice, “how sudden! Well, come to me tomorrow, for
Gates lived. This officer unlocked their spectacles to put them back in
for his great leaps had made his breath short, and he panted like a big
housework. So the old woman went to the Wicked Witch of the East, and


come to an end, and that they were no longer prisoners in a strange
When Dorothy was left alone she began to feel hungry. So she went to
was said to be the best and wisest man in all the land, while his manly
is to fill it with hot air. Hot air isn’t as good as gas, for if the
Then she came out again to the Munchkins and said:
He opened the big box, and Dorothy saw that it was filled with

they were afraid of me, and promised to do anything I wished them to.

all its branches as if in pain, and the Tin Woodman passed safely under
pick a beautiful flower; and after a time the Tin Woodman cried out:
rusts my jaws so that I cannot speak.”


They walked along as fast as they could, Dorothy only stopping once to
“That must be the Emerald City,” said Dorothy.
While Dorothy was looking earnestly into the queer, painted face of the

this room, and when they were seated he said politely:
Scarecrow had done.
“When the Witch is dead, come to me, and I will then give you the


head from its body, so that it immediately died. As soon as he could


Chapter XXI
for they had never seen a dog before.
The Dainty China Country
is going to turn out.” Then he said good-bye to them all in a cheerful
stretched out until the top of the head, where it was flat, struck the
“We are not so unlucky,” said the new ruler, “for this Palace and the

I’d much rather go back to Kansas with you and be in a circus again.”
“Have you brains?” asked the Scarecrow.
heart, you know, so I am careful to help all those who may need a

Then Oz painted it on the inside with a coat of thin glue, to make it
or the Land of Oz so long as Dorothy was with him; but he knew the
harmless creature.
yours.”


“Oh, no,” returned the soldier; “I have never seen him. But I spoke to
It was nearly as big as an elephant, and the green throne seemed hardly
He led the way to a small chamber in the rear of the Throne Room, and
awkward way in which the poor creature picked up the nuts. His padded
people together and get them to pay to see the circus,” he explained.
they would do me no harm; but the Witches of the East and West were

The Wonderful City of Oz
painted green, and when they came to a small house, in which a farmer
the next, nor the next. The waiting was tiresome and wearing, and at

then, before she had time to think about it, she was safe on the other
“We must cross this strange place in order to get to the other side,”
the windows, and there was a shelf with a row of little green books.
“I am a Woodman, and made of tin. Therefore I have no heart, and cannot
“You promised to send me back to Kansas when the Wicked Witch was
and I am only a little girl.”
Before they went to see Glinda, however, they were taken to a room of

shape again.
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman and the Lion exactly what they thought


This they decided to do. The next day they called the Winkies together
and coming slowly up to the Woodman it said, in a squeaky little voice:
 Chapter XV. The Discovery of Oz, the Terrible
from the branches that she gathered some of it, finding it just what
man could turn it himself.
his heart rattling around in his breast; and he told Dorothy he had

peculiar that you prefer cooked food, and then you will have a very
hoped it would be the lovely Lady. “For,” he said to himself, “if it is
 Chapter XVI. The Magic Art of the Great Humbug

make everything ready for the wedding.


to use his axe at once, and, just as the two Kalidahs were nearly

 Chapter XVIII. Away to the South
we shall be carried into the country of the Wicked Witch of the West,
“But then I should not have had my wonderful brains!” cried the
the house raised it up higher and higher, until it was at the very top
come to the end of the woods and reach the bright sunshine again. To
her.
“I am everywhere,” answered the Voice, “but to the eyes of common

“No; there were some, but the monster has eaten them all. And, besides,
Winged Monkeys had also helped her in doing this. Only once more could
on account of his good fortune.
she forgot where she was and fell among the poppies, fast asleep.
him up. So he kept a good distance away from the flames, and only came


Scarecrow. Its head was a small sack stuffed with straw, with eyes,

one of them the King himself. They had made a chair of their hands and
was of a greenish tint. At his side was a large green box.
Toto barked sharply and made a snap at the tin legs, which hurt his
courageous I have grown.”
crow of sense could see that you are only stuffed with straw.’ Then he
suddenly upon the floor.
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WONDERFUL WIZARD OF OZ ***
kitten, and Dorothy at last found him. She picked him up and ran
their wings should be tied and they should be treated as they had
they paid for it with green pennies.


“But suppose we cannot?” said the girl.
big pile of wood, and now he made a fire of it, and Oz held the bottom
“I was afraid I should have to stay in the river forever,” he said,
that he shall treat you all with kindness.”
A woman opened it just far enough to look out, and said, “What do you
rainstorm, before I thought of the danger my joints had rusted, and I
“It shall be done,” said the King, and at once the Winged Monkeys
trees and sunshine to cheer them, and had they not felt so sorry for
escape.


Folklore, legends, myths and fairy tales have followed childhood
made a truck out of the limbs of trees, from which he chopped away all
to the door and knocked.
the desert, so she may know a way to cross it.”
powerful as a telescope, and could see everywhere. So, as she sat in
like a horse?”
fierce Kalidahs.
green silk more than twenty feet long.
declared he could see as well as by day. So she took hold of his arm
them.”
many years ago, long before Oz came out of the clouds to rule over this

short, with a little cry of surprise.
So the Wizard unfastened his head and emptied out the straw. Then he

walked along he sang “Tol-de-ri-de-oh!” at every step, he felt so gay.
that pole. It was a lonely life to lead, for I had nothing to think of,
But the Scarecrow said, “This is my battle, so lie down beside me and
to fill the balloon with, to make it float.”
“But you were strong enough to kill the Wicked Witch of the East,” said
Then they told him of the field mice, and how they had generously saved
open country where there is plenty of sunshine. But now and then there

dented on the rocks below. But if I am on your back it will not matter

and untilled. Toward evening they came to a great forest, where the
great mistake my ever letting you into the Throne Room. Usually I will
“I am—I certainly am,” answered the little man sorrowfully; “but it was
green lemonade, and when the children bought it Dorothy could see that

could see or feel was the wind whistling past her ears.
Dorothy heard a voice say:
But when Gayelette came running out to him she found his silks and
where the trees and branches grew so thick over the road that the
The Lion became quite angry at the laughter caused by the Scarecrow’s

Forthwith there was heard a great buzzing in the air, and a swarm of

time the tree fell over with a crash, whereupon the Scarecrow’s clothes

after which they walked away through the trees. The Witch gave Dorothy

“You are unusual,” replied Glinda.
after the stock.” Then he ran toward the sheds where the cows and
the ground, for the air within it was hot, and this made it so much
in the Emerald City?”
and I suppose there never will be, for they don’t belong there. We
the other animals in the forest naturally expect me to be brave, for
and well. But to those who are not honest, or who approach him from
times the Scarecrow twisted a neck, until at last all were lying dead
ladder was ready. The Scarecrow climbed up the ladder first, but he was


dried.
have not killed anything.”
well.”
The Journey to the Great Oz


At noon they sat down by the roadside, near a little brook, and Dorothy
at everything around me with a great deal of curiosity, for this was my
beards. But the little woman was doubtless much older. Her face was
“Who is Aunt Em?” inquired the little old woman.
“I wonder if they will fit me,” she said to Toto. “They would be just
When he saw Dorothy and her companions the man asked, “What do you wish
The Tin Woodman had asked Dorothy to put the oil-can in her basket.
it the Emerald City; and to make the name fit better I put green
the Emerald City is at the other end of the road, we must go wherever
“With pleasure,” she answered, and brought a towel at once. Then the
want, child, and why is that great Lion with you?”
were tigers and elephants and bears and wolves and foxes and all the
This was to be an eventful day for the travelers. They had hardly been
“Come in,” said Oz.
piece of string in his mouth. It was about this time that Dorothy woke
them again he wondered greatly that they could leave the beautiful City
come farther. But the little old woman walked up to Dorothy, made a low

little girl who had come by the chance of a cyclone into a strange
Golden Cap is yours, and three times you have the right to lay your
I heard was the farmer saying, ‘How do you like those ears?’
Those who dwelt in the East and the West were, indeed, wicked witches;
The Winkies lifted him tenderly in their arms, and carried him back to

fruit.
good friends. But now that each of them has had what he most desired,
My Wife
“he was the first to lay his wishes upon us. As his bride could not
to look into the child’s eyes and saw how simple the soul behind them
he leaned against the tree.

stood beside her.
became rougher and hillier, for there were no farms nor houses in this
 Chapter XVII. How the Balloon Was Launched

a way most dangerous to his joints. But she hugged the soft, stuffed
Once Toto got too near the open trap door, and fell in; and at first
Dorothy went to the Witch’s cupboard to fill her basket with food for
which the Winged Monkeys had tossed the Scarecrow’s clothes.

it away and put it on her own skinny foot.
poured upon it the ball burned fiercely.
big beast like you, to bite a poor little dog!”

strap, and sent them back to their work, after which she sat down to

have cost the princess half her kingdom. Of course my grandfather and
“Perhaps you have heart disease,” said the Tin Woodman.
Em will surely think something dreadful has happened to me, and that

plums from the trees beside the river. Behind them was the dark forest
“It is exactly in the center of the country, and is ruled by Oz, the

“We are on our way to the Emerald City to see the Great Oz,” she
frighten him that he will grant all I ask. And if he is the lovely
little girl.
stood upon his head.
the Lion,” he said to the Woodman, “and the bees cannot sting them.”
be helped.”
beautiful places, and then Kansas would have no people at all. It is


moments the entire band stood before her.
“We can try,” answered the Lion.
From the far north they heard a low wail of the wind, and Uncle Henry

“Who are the wizards?” asked Dorothy.

wall, and Dorothy put her head over and cried, “Oh, my!” just as the
the Country of the West, I should like nothing better than to rule over
Still, for many days they grieved over the loss of the Wonderful
around the neck of each mouse and the other end to the truck. Of course

about Kansas, and how gray everything was there, and how the cyclone
it did not matter now if my axe slipped, for it could not cut me. There
“Come in,” called Oz, and the Woodman entered and said, “I have come
“Yes,” she answered, “I melted her with a bucket of water.”

“Who are you and where are you going?” asked the Stork.

the Golden Cap.”
although the Woodman fell over in the road and lay still.
Emerald City until they reached the room where the Guardian of the
So once more the little company set off upon the journey, the Lion
they wanted. “How can I help being a humbug,” he said, “when all these
and rule over them and the Yellow Land of the West. Finding they were
bidding. And if he is the great Head, he will be at my mercy; for I

clump of grass and asked, in a timid voice, “Are you sure he will not


and so well did he work that by the time the mice began to arrive the
lives in the City of Emeralds.”

across the ditch again.
by L. Frank Baum
tail.”
will think more of me when you hear the splendid thoughts my new brain
So they sat down and listened while he told the following tale.
Now that they were reunited, Dorothy and her friends spent a few happy

“It is written inside the Golden Cap,” replied the Queen of the Mice.
believe I can make a balloon.”

“Very well,” said the wolf, and he dashed away at full speed, followed
The Cowardly Lion was much pleased to hear that the Wicked Witch had
When Dorothy stood in the doorway and looked around, she could see
beast, you know. Besides, Dorothy will need someone to protect her.”
away as easily as you could carry a feather.
they were the same gray color to be seen everywhere. Once the house had
I’ll go at once for the Golden Cap.”
And oh, Aunt Em! I’m so glad to be at home again!”
the direction of their journey for fear of getting lost. So they looked
they imagined I could do anything. But it will take more than

together, we will begin to work on our balloon.”
waiting for him and said proudly:
classed as “historical” in the children’s library; for the time has
she could not understand. The Lion was also puzzled to know what was

was only one danger—that my joints would rust; but I kept an oil-can in

Then all the Winged Monkeys, with much laughing and chattering and
“Here are strangers,” said the Guardian of the Gates to him, “and they
shore. It was hard work, although he was so big; but by and by they
Toto jumped out of Dorothy’s arms and hid under the bed, and the girl
“I got them from the Wicked Witch of the East, when my house fell on


This did not hurt the Scarecrow, but it surprised him, and he looked
then a strip of emerald green; for Oz had a fancy to make the balloon
Oz had promised to bestow on him. Dorothy fell asleep only once, and

were to be admitted at once.
“‘That’s a rather pretty eye,’” remarked the Munchkin who was watching
“Then send for them all to come here as soon as possible, and let each


The Lion climbed the ladder next, and the Tin Woodman came last; but

my body and my arms and legs; and when they fastened on my head, at

Witch, as well as a wicked one, and she soon made up her mind how to

crush any building in its path. It was reached by a trap door in the
edge of the gulf and crouched down.

bounded at her so fiercely that the Witch was afraid, and ran out and
The wicked woman was greatly pleased with the success of her trick, for
caught Toto by the ear, and dragged him into the room again, afterward
drawers, he took out a pretty heart, made entirely of silk and stuffed
rocks, where he lay so battered and dented that he could neither move
“Because if you did not wear spectacles the brightness and glory of the
“I want you to fly with me to Kansas,” said Dorothy.
Aunt Em dropped her work and came to the door. One glance told her of
 Chapter VII. The Journey to the Great Oz
would be caught in the silken bag. Gradually the balloon swelled out
cannot help me.”
and rose into the air, until finally the basket just touched the
The farms were not nearly so well cared for here as they were farther
my shoe from me.”
legs against the tree and pushed with all his might, and slowly the big

came up to her, feeling rather bruised and sore, and said, “It is
will rule over you. I command you to obey him as you would me.”

At poor old Mr. Joker?
mouth is only painted, and if I should cut a hole in it so I could eat,
silver oil-can, inlaid with gold and set with precious jewels.
and fast at the joy of meeting her old friend again, and these tears

rolled over at his feet in two pieces.
shape again, and solder him together where he is broken?”
she wanted to help out her breakfast.
“I shall keep it, just the same,” said the Witch, laughing at her, “and
“It has been many years since anyone asked me to see Oz,” he said,
“If Dorothy would only be contented to live in the Emerald City,”
went to her own room and lay down on the bed and cried herself to
“No, for this pole is stuck up my back. If you will please take away
exact center of the cyclone. In the middle of a cyclone the air is

“Thank you,” said Dorothy gratefully. “You are all very kind to me. But

Then the green man fitted spectacles for the Scarecrow and the Tin
sniffed at it as if he did not like it, the Wizard said:
“I always did like flowers,” said the Lion. “They seem so helpless and

and terrible a roar that Dorothy screamed and the Scarecrow fell over

all the other Monkeys at once agreed to the condition, and that is how
showing two rows of ugly teeth, while its red eyes glowed like balls of

pieces.
So she called the Winkies to help her, and they walked all that day and
 Chapter XIX. Attacked by the Fighting Trees
across it easily.”

part of the Palace. Of course this politeness was wasted on the
treated Quelala, and dropped in the river. But my grandfather pleaded
“Didn’t you know water would be the end of me?” asked the Witch, in a
“We shall go tomorrow morning,” returned the Scarecrow. “So now let us
carry you over the desert. In the meantime you shall all be treated as
gnashed her teeth. And then she called a dozen of her slaves, who were

with the key.

The Lion hesitated no longer, but drank till the dish was empty.
curiosity, he is most terrible, and few have ever dared ask to see his
green color and was as white as Dorothy’s dress.
at last asked the green girl to take another message to Oz, saying if
looked into it they could see it was also very deep, and there were
obey you?”
Lion shook the dust out of his mane, and the Scarecrow patted himself

must end.
round hats that rose to a small point a foot above their heads, with
country. This made her angrier than before, and she blew her silver
pass the night with them; for this was the home of one of the richest

her?”
she could find no one to love in return, since all the men were much
first the Witch was tempted to run away from Dorothy; but she happened
time is all unknown to me. Luckily, when the farmer made my head, one

and green pop corn were offered for sale, as well as green shoes, green
slaves, and set herself to rule over their country. The Winged Monkeys
interested in the story.
noise, flew into the air and were soon out of sight.
head to her in a friendly way. Then she climbed down from the fence and
of them could climb down, and for a moment it seemed that their journey
tree tipped and fell with a crash across the ditch, with its top
Then a head showed itself over the rock and the same voice said, “This

evidently lived, that also was painted green. They passed by several of
can get the Scarecrow’s clothes.”

might rest until the Great Oz was ready to receive them.
badly that I cannot move them at all; if I am well oiled I shall soon
great assemblage hushed as if by magic. The biggest of the tigers came



Sorrowfully Dorothy left the Throne Room and went back where the Lion


would make him her husband, so she took him to her ruby palace and used
Dorothy was shocked to see that the cow had broken her leg off, and
eating her bread.
So he led the way and the others followed. They had nearly reached the
But day by day passed away, and they still saw nothing before them but
“‘Now I’ll make the eyes,’” said the farmer. So he painted my right
to Kansas, and if he did she was willing to forgive him everything.

many houses made entirely of china and painted in the brightest colors.
“I will not,” retorted the Witch, “for it is now my shoe, and not
won’t hurt you.”
larger than the rest. On the green lawn before it many men and women


“I haven’t the faintest idea,” said the Tin Woodman, and the Lion shook
jumped, he upset a china church with his tail and smashed it all to

nothing but a lot of skins, sewn together, with slats to keep their

quite cheerfully, and had a fine time looking at the pretty gardens and
do but talk to each other, but they always came to wait outside the
again, thinking I was a Munchkin; and this pleased me and made me feel
are no witches left, nor wizards, nor sorceresses, nor magicians. But,
spectacles.”
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman ate nothing at all. Toto ate a little of

stumbling along in the darkness. Dorothy could not see at all, but Toto
around as we please. But whenever any of us are taken away our joints



air. Dorothy felt as if she were going up in a balloon.
his tail. Then the Lion began to swim with all his might toward the
Toto ran over to the trees and began to bark at the birds sitting
and buttercups. Dorothy still wore the pretty silk dress she had put on


But the Scarecrow said, “We cannot fly, that is certain. Neither can we
Others took the Scarecrow and the Woodman and the Lion, and one little
to the Lion’s surprise, he could make no impression on the tin,
gathered his legs under him and jumped on the wall; but just as he
strange and beautiful country.
as many as he put in the basket. But the Scarecrow did not mind how
The Scarecrow was now the ruler of the Emerald City, and although he
Chapter XXII
“Truly I should be ungrateful if I failed to mourn for the man who gave
other travelers had come back again, after destroying the Wicked Witch;
sent word for them to come to the Throne Room at four minutes after
straw and cannot be easily damaged. There are worse things in the world
the lining. These, she thought, must be the charm, so she read the

away in every direction as fast as possible.
“but if you go I certainly shall go with you.”
disturbed. The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman stood up in a corner and
kept quiet all night, although of course they could not sleep.

from top to bottom with great pieces of rock.
in all the Land of Oz—the one who lives in the West.”


A chorus of boisterous laughter came from the other rocks, and Dorothy
chairs; and I will tell you my story.”

due South.”
but if you will come to me tomorrow morning, I will stuff your head

They had to wait a long time before the soldier returned. When, at
the lovely Lady. And the Tin Woodman saw that his terrible Beast was
Indeed, at first he was angry and said I should send you back where you
“Yes,” answered the Scarecrow. “Everything is green here, while in the
the river the swift current swept the raft downstream, farther and
said:
“Oh, yes; I am anxious,” returned the Scarecrow. “It is such an
through the ages, for every healthy youngster has a wholesome and
obliged to go out into the courtyard and hold it in the sun till it
Dorothy asked, “Where are you?”
“Is he tame?” asked the woman, opening the door a little wider.
“Take good care of these friends of mine,” said the Lion, “and I will

fire. As it came nearer the Tin Woodman saw that running before the

beautifully carved green marble basin. Beautiful green flowers stood in
the Scarecrow and set him upon his feet, while she patted him into

the Lion were tired, and lay down upon the grass and fell asleep, with
hill belongs to us, and we don’t allow anyone to cross it.”
way. But at noon, when the sun was over their heads, they did not know
the rapid flight of the Monkeys, but was glad the journey was over. The
“They are the Kalidahs!” said the Cowardly Lion, beginning to tremble.
her friends were walking. But the Woodman had seen them coming, and the

the rock the strangest man the travelers had ever seen.
tell us the way to the Emerald City.”

all the Winged Monkeys brought before her, and she said at first that
making them slave for her night and day. Now they are all set free, and
big head tenderly. Then she kissed the Tin Woodman, who was weeping in
him, but tell your story and ask him to help you. Good-bye, my dear.”
cow?”
and said:
deal of chattering and noise, the Winged Monkeys flew away to the place
was ready to show them to the Palace. Taking a big golden key from a

The Scarecrow sighed.


being away so long.”

velvet all ruined by the river.

to light on his head and get the pins in their feet. When all were
“Oh, yes,” replied Dorothy.
The wild crows flew in one great flock toward Dorothy and her

“Therefore you have done a great deed, as well as a brave one, in
came a deep growl from some wild animal hidden among the trees. These

who had been standing silently by, gave a loud shout and pointed to the
“Very well,” answered the little man; “I will get it for you.”

on the hard bricks. It never hurt him, however, and Dorothy would pick
that you appeared to me as a great Head?”
Just as he spoke there came from the forest a terrible roar, and the
The Rescue of the Tin Woodman
party.


“Are you really going to look upon the face of Oz the Terrible?”
the Lion,” said the Wicked Witch. “Bring that beast to me, for I have a
in the straw, and he often growled in an unfriendly way at the
grew to love her with all my heart. She, on her part, promised to marry
genie, dwarf and fairy are eliminated, together with all the horrible
woman. “She has held all the Munchkins in bondage for many years,

at all, and, seeing this, the Scarecrow did not fear that so helpless a
So, the Lion being fully refreshed, and feeling quite himself again,

“I will return to the Emerald City,” he replied, “for Oz has made me
Dorothy.
Kansas for you. But first you must get to see him, and that will be a
 Chapter III. How Dorothy Saved the Scarecrow
Dorothy then gave her the Golden Cap, and the Witch said to the
“Well, I’ll tell you what I think,” said the little man. “You see, when
The Tin Woodman came to her and said:
looks just like a man.’

the magic words. The Monkeys were as prompt as ever, and in a few

only one way left to destroy Dorothy and her friends.
The Magic Art of the Great Humbug
one great roar. “Who are you, and why do you seek me?”
in a disagreeable country, full of bogs and marshes and covered with
Home Again
there was a strip of light green silk, then a strip of dark green and
the point on the end of her nose, while she counted “One, two, three”

holes, for the grass was so thick that it hid them from sight. However,
rested very well indeed.
bear a powerful charm. There is now but one Wicked Witch left in all
has lately come into this forest. It is a most tremendous monster, like

How the Balloon Was Launched


when the balloon brought me here, and I am a very old man now. But my

water has spotted your clothes.’ Quelala was much too wise not to swim,
The Scarecrow sat upon the Lion’s back, and the big beast walked to the

“But isn’t everything here green?” asked Dorothy.
One, much bigger than the others, seemed to be their leader. He flew
“Where are you all going?”
answered, “and we stopped at your cottage to pass the night.”
“If he is a Beast when I go to see him, I shall roar my loudest, and so


Dorothy wanted to see more of the Princess, so she ran after her. But
that stood near and dashed it over the Witch, wetting her from head to
Every one of the travelers made the Winkies a pretty speech in return,
“Do you think Oz could give me courage?” asked the Cowardly Lion.

flowers is killing us all. I myself can scarcely keep my eyes open, and
“Or I my brains?” wailed the Scarecrow, wiping the tears from his eyes

So the soldier was summoned and entered the Throne Room timidly, for

“Now,” said the Scarecrow to the Tin Woodman, “you must go to those
This adventure made the travelers more anxious than ever to get out of
looking into her face, whining dismally to show how sorry he was for
“You must keep your promises to us!” exclaimed Dorothy.



Introduction


the Head. Here are the other things I used to deceive you.” He showed

straight east, toward the rising sun; and they started off in the right

as her other surroundings. Toto was not gray; he was a little black
soon the band of Winged Monkeys flew in through the open window and
bondage. So she chose a number of the Winkies who looked as if they
their arms until they were over the middle of the river, and then
side. The Lion went back a third time and got the Tin Woodman, and then
daisies than it was being carried. They knew, of course, they must go
the Munchkins, “and there is some charm connected with them; but what
foot long; but its head was joined to the pudgy body by a neck as
“Oh, no, my dear; I’m really a very good man, but I’m a very bad

“If you see any house, or any place where we can pass the night,” she
Dorothy could stand no longer. Her eyes closed in spite of herself and

City; and the Winkies gave them three cheers and many good wishes to
“No, my head is quite empty,” answered the Woodman. “But once I had


carefully and wiped them away with the towel. When he had finished, he
himself asleep in a minute.
“Welcome, O King of Beasts! You have come in good time to fight our
become the King of Beasts, as men call me.”
worry about me. Can you help me find my way?”
“I never grant favors without some return,” said Oz; “but this much I
laugh. The feet of the dead Witch had disappeared entirely, and nothing
She was within a few steps of it, and Oz was holding out his hands to
As he spoke several of the beasts caught sight of him, and at once the
had carried her to this queer Land of Oz.
dropped him into the water.
Wizard, and would not be comforted.
“Why have you come to the South Country?”
monster’s back. Then, with one blow of his heavy paw, all armed with
and saw no one at all in the room. They kept close to the door and


to a big building, exactly in the middle of the City, which was the


the stake, and from what you say I am sure the Great Oz will give me

had shown to her friends and herself.
And the Lion would answer, “No. If you come in this yard, I will bite
rubies running round it. This Golden Cap had a charm. Whoever owned it
another corner. There was no garret at all, and no cellar—except a
“Oz was always our friend. When he was here he built for us this
Dorothy played with him, and loved him dearly.

castle to yourself. I have been wicked in my day, but I never thought a
“Oz has sent for you. Follow me.”
pavement of the same green marble, and where the blocks were joined
away.”
“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible. Why do you seek me?”
said Dorothy, “for it would be unwise for us to go any other way except
“And what became of them?” asked Dorothy, who had been greatly
“This is all true,” said Dorothy, “and I am glad I was of use to these

As soon as he had spoken, the Tin Woodman began to chop, and in a short


Scarecrow.
it leads us.”

company, and while the woman was busy laying the table the man asked:

“You must have been thinking again,” remarked the Tin Woodman.

“I ran as fast as I could,” he said, sitting down and yawning, “but the

loaded with delicious fruits and nuts, pies and cakes, and many other
Terrible Humbug,” as she called him, would find a way to send her back
The Guardian of the Gate
The bees came and found no one but the Woodman to sting, so they flew
The eyes looked at her thoughtfully for a full minute. Then said the
“Don’t! Please don’t,” begged the Tin Woodman. “I should certainly weep
Now the Scarecrow, who had expected to see the great Head Dorothy had
your party, I will also go to the Emerald City and ask Oz to help me.”
“Oh,” she said, “I know.”

come to some place.”
“Don’t you dare to bite Toto! You ought to be ashamed of yourself, a
“I’m very sorry,” returned Dorothy. “Please forgive us.”
and looked out with her one eye that could see far off. She saw all her

no one will dare injure a person who has been kissed by the Witch of
“This is a great comfort,” he said. “I have been holding that axe in
“You people with hearts,” he said, “have something to guide you, and
the thing to take a long walk in, for they could not wear out.”
“We came here to see the Great Oz,” said Dorothy.

Scarecrow, as he stood beside the girl, “for we have come nearly as far

The Scarecrow, who was in the lead, finally discovered a big tree with
luck not to have a heart.”
To be sure, the broad river now cut them off from this beautiful land.

“And I am going to ask him to send Toto and me back to Kansas,” added

went upon their journey.
from the end of the poppy bed, where the sweet grass spread in
When they were all quite presentable they followed the soldier girl

less than an hour.”
green hair and green eyes, and she bowed low before Dorothy as she
“Never mind the patch,” exclaimed the happy Woodman. “I am very

around the table and Dorothy ate some delicious porridge and a dish of
“My third command to the Winged Monkeys,” said Glinda, “shall be to
find their way back through the big fields of buttercups and yellow

night on the grass, with nothing but the stars over them; and they
“Go to the strangers who are within my land and destroy them all except
So, while they were walking through the forest, the Tin Woodman told
The next morning, after breakfast, the green maiden came to fetch

to think that the greatest loss I had known was the loss of my heart.
Once more they could see fences built beside the road; but these were

“Drink.”
“Well, I’m not sure about Kansas,” said Oz, “for I haven’t the faintest
the middle of the kitchen floor, and then by her magic arts made the

“Thank you very much,” said the Scarecrow, when he had been set down on
“Then we are all right,” answered the Scarecrow, “for you can carry us
to find himself still alive.



no brains and the Scarecrow no heart, or each got what he wanted.
“Really?” asked the Mouse.
she was.
Today, however, they were not playing. Uncle Henry sat upon the
“Are you going?” they asked, in surprise.


the Scarecrow the dress and the mask he had worn when he seemed to be
of water and threw it over the mess. She then swept it all out the
face. I am the Guardian of the Gates, and since you demand to see the

“Of course I cannot understand it,” he said. “If your heads were

But the wicked creature was very cunning, and she finally thought of a
ate for her dinner.

Woodman. “When we have climbed over it, we shall know what is on the

rose into the air without her.
and, really, that was the only thing I wished in all the world.”
at once he could not leap across it.


When, at last, he walked into Dorothy’s room and thanked her for
again, while Toto ran around them and chased the moths and butterflies,
all over on your back, one at a time.”
wolves. They had long legs and fierce eyes and sharp teeth.

“Go to the strangers and sting them to death!” commanded the Witch, and
to get into new trouble. But he at once unlocked their spectacles,

the West, who would make you her slave if you passed her way.”
the people.”

It was not so high as the first, however, and by standing upon the
so awkward that Dorothy had to follow close behind and keep him from
“All the same,” said the Scarecrow, “she needs a heart as much as the


she cried out:
it a kind heart?”



have been to the Emerald City many times, and it is a beautiful and
worked for three days and four nights, hammering and twisting and
speak.
Instantly she was whirling through the air, so swiftly that all she

the head, I am sure I shall not be given a heart, since a head has no




You know, of course, that courage is always inside one; so that this
    And prim as if
spectacles night and day. They are all locked on, for Oz so ordered it

herself in a wonderful place. It was a big, round room with a high
much too heavy to lift. We must leave him here to sleep on forever, and
“Why, it is said that he never lets anyone come into his presence. I
little girl, who had been carried by a cyclone many miles from home;


him up and set him upon his feet again, while he joined her in laughing
sad voice in which the man spoke.
understand them but himself. When the Tin Woodman walked about he felt
Now go, and do not ask to see me again until you have done your task.”
room, the walls of which glistened with countless emeralds.
little girl like you would ever be able to melt me and end my wicked

joints.
coming storm. There now came a sharp whistling in the air from the
Dorothy; “and the Lion is my friend and comrade, and would not hurt you


“She is my aunt who lives in Kansas, where I came from.”

“Have you seen Oz?”
both of them cried, “Oh, my!” as soon as they looked over the wall.
“How far is it to the Emerald City?” the girl asked.
he sprang upon the bed and rolled himself up like a cat and purred
and wind had changed her, too. They had taken the sparkle from her eyes

A little way off was a small brook, rushing and sparkling along between

“I suppose not,” said Dorothy.
the Witch actually melting away like brown sugar before her very eyes.
“That’s why he went over so easily,” remarked the Lion. “It astonished
the farther they advanced, and in the afternoon they suddenly came upon
So the Tin Woodman followed him and came to the great Throne Room. He
shining and white as the bottom of a big platter. Scattered around were
a large, loud roar, which was so fierce and dreadful that Toto jumped
arched roof, and the walls and ceiling and floor were covered with

heard the pattering of tiny feet, and many of the small gray mice came
“Wait a minute!” called the Scarecrow. He had been thinking what was


and nothing terrible happened, she stopped worrying and resolved to
Our little party of travelers awakened the next morning refreshed and
The King Crow flew at the Scarecrow, who caught it by the head and
“Why, I guess so,” Dorothy answered. “It would be as easy as to give
the painted eyes of the Scarecrow were dazzled by their brilliancy.

anyone who breathes it falls asleep, and if the sleeper is not carried
“Don’t you suppose we could rescue them?” asked the girl anxiously.
press her hand upon her heart whenever Dorothy’s merry voice reached
because I cannot get hurt. If anyone treads on my toes or sticks a pin


Chicago, April, 1900.
One by one the mice came creeping back, and Toto did not bark again,
noticed how old and worn her shoes were.


should kill another bug or beetle I should surely cry again, and crying
The Tin Woodman gave a sigh of satisfaction and lowered his axe, which

While she stood looking eagerly at the strange and beautiful sights,
two friends was right, and she decided if she could only get back to

well-polished boots with a deep roll of blue at the tops. The men,
“Are any of your people tinsmiths?”
last, I felt very proud, for I thought I was just as good a man as



away from the scent of the flowers, he sleeps on and on forever. But
love. I pray you to give me a heart that I may be as other men are.”
met in the Throne Room and talked matters over. The Scarecrow sat in
wonderful things. There were four of them in this country, and they
“Well, in a few minutes I shall be all melted, and you will have the
things. Think of me, and the terrible trouble I’m in at being found

act.
long pole and helped push the raft to the land.
“Thank you,” replied Dorothy, and then the kind Stork flew into the air
Dorothy told the Witch all her story: how the cyclone had brought her
Room, where he saw, sitting in the emerald throne, a most lovely Lady.
close to the Witch and said, “You have called us for the third and last
Before them was a great stretch of country having a floor as smooth and
climb down into this great ditch. Therefore, if we cannot jump over it,
of my voice wherever I wish, so that you thought it was coming out of

“Very likely. Well, Oz can do anything; so I suppose he will find
were quite as long as the tiger had said, and its body covered with
Oz had said; and Dorothy was surprised to find that the Great Wizard


life of our Queen?”


watching the sad fate of her comrades and thinking it would soon be her
So, when they were rested, Dorothy picked up her basket and they
attack the creature, and as he knew it was easier to fight it asleep
“And I shall never have a heart,” spoke the Tin Woodman.

This the Woodman did, and as Dorothy lay close beside the Lion and held
the bars of the gate, “I can starve you. You shall have nothing to eat

“I shall go with Dorothy,” declared the Lion, “for I am tired of your

yawned. “And where are you going?”
Then Toto came up, and immediately began to bark, but Dorothy made him
“And I should get no heart,” said the Tin Woodman.


comfortable bed that had sheets of green silk and a green velvet
roared at him, and he has always run away as fast as he could go. If
“Don’t mind Mr. Joker,” said the Princess to Dorothy. “He is
as tall as Dorothy, who was a well-grown child for her age, although
and gladly dispenses with all disagreeable incident.

City and that Oz will help you.”
to be blinded by the glare of the Emerald City, so she said nothing.


green brocaded satin. Dorothy put on a green silk apron and tied a
“My dress is blue and white checked,” said Dorothy, smoothing out the
The little girl, seeing she had lost one of her pretty shoes, grew
It was Toto that made Dorothy laugh, and saved her from growing as gray

“And I want him to give me courage,” said the Cowardly Lion.
considerably cracked in his head, and that makes him foolish.”

Woodman and the Lion, and even on little Toto; and all were locked fast
that flew past his head. So he put out his tongue and panted and looked
smooth, like the surface of a dish, and higher than their heads.
“What promise?” asked Oz.
A little farther on Dorothy met a most beautifully dressed young


the dog is asleep already.”
The Munchkins and the Witch first looked at one another, and then at
Then he led them into his little room and locked the spectacles from

himself, whose name was Boq. Then she sat upon a settee and watched the
instinctive love for stories fantastic, marvelous and manifestly

the people love me. I am not as powerful as the Wicked Witch was who
down at Dorothy’s feet, and seeing the Silver Shoes, began to tremble


Dorothy looked at him curiously. His head was quite bulged out at the

“Kill the Wicked Witch of the West,” answered Oz.
beautiful. And I am sure Aunt Em will be dreadfully worried over my
eyes winked again and looked upon her anxiously, as if the Great Oz
“I will not let him,” said the Woodman; “so do not be afraid.”
“Oh, Oz could do that easily enough,” declared the man. “He has more
climb over the wall.”
they are full of mischief and think it great fun to plague us.”
“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible,” spoke the Beast, in a voice that was

The morning after the balloon had gone up with Oz, the four travelers
scampered out of sight, with all the mice hurrying after her.
brains than he needs.”
“What is that?” asked Dorothy; “the Munchkin farmer who made you?”
“Oh, I’m not afraid,” replied the Scarecrow. “He can’t hurt the straw.
their branches, and that probably these were the policemen of the
behind, and with it the many dangers they had met in its gloomy shades.


“Only a mouse!” cried the little animal, indignantly. “Why, I am a


answered Glinda, smiling.

“I should like something to eat besides fruit,” said the girl, “and I’m
carry with them.
people gazed upon it with much curiosity. The Tin Woodman had chopped a
forest, and given this wonderful power in order to keep strangers out
make a visit to a great brother Wizard who lived in the clouds. The
Tin Woodman told her all. She thanked him for saving them and sat down
and all shook hands with them until their arms ached.
continue the part a little longer.”
Shoes which the girl always wore. Her bees and her crows and her wolves
well trained by a great master. I can imitate any kind of a bird or
and Dorothy could see where the long grass bowed in waves before the
in a corner of the room, just as if it were not one of the most
soldier made them all wipe their feet upon a green mat before entering
happy and full of fun, and enjoyed every minute of the day. This was
The Scarecrow watched the Woodman while he worked, and said to him:

City. It was high and thick and of a bright green color.

of the country that the Kalidahs lived.
I suppose there is nothing to do but try it. So get on my back and we
dressed in a pretty green silk gown, entered the room. She had lovely

and rules over the Quadlings. Besides, her castle stands on the edge of
he took great care never to be cruel or unkind to anything.

moment all of them were filled with wonder. For they saw, standing in
The girl had to work hard during the day, and often the Witch

she made up her mind to wear it and carry her sunbonnet in the basket.

Three were men and one a woman, and all were oddly dressed. They wore

“Where is Kansas?” asked the man, with surprise.
“Let us call in the soldier with the green whiskers,” he said, “and ask
But my feet would not touch the ground, and I was forced to stay on

“No,” answered the Scarecrow; “it’s a lighted match.”
doorway, they paused and whispered among themselves, as if afraid to
“Over there in the river,” answered the little girl.

through the portal into the streets of the Emerald City.




“Go on,” exclaimed Dorothy.
nor groan.
me carry you back to Kansas, and stand you on Aunt Em’s mantel? I could
Chapter VIII
beast and he had given up at last, and fallen only a short distance
Scarecrow are destroyed, and the Lion is tied up in your yard. The
was made from oats and oats were food for horses, not for lions. The
“Is he a good man?” inquired the girl anxiously.
also. As for the little old woman, she took off her cap and balanced

said, “Follow me and I will show you your room.”
and she felt she must sit down to rest and to sleep.

and needles began to stick out of his brains. Finally he said:
While the Woodman was making a ladder from wood which he found in the
rare and brilliant plumage sang and fluttered in the trees and bushes.
green ribbon around Toto’s neck, and they started for the Throne Room
“Hello!” replied the Tin Woodman calmly.
After a great deal of hard work, for the Lion was heavy, they managed
kept along the well-trodden path until they came to an opening in the
them.”
This made Dorothy so very angry that she picked up the bucket of water
The Wonderful Wizard of Oz
wonderful place; but I have never been permitted to see the Great Oz,

East, and for setting our people free from bondage.”

and ever so much.”
they thought they could mend him so he would be as good as ever. So
last. Now, if you will oil the joints of my legs, I shall be all right
flattened out, and patted his straw into shape again.
Chapter XII
“How?” asked Dorothy.
made up their minds that only the first row of trees could bend down
Dorothy followed her through many of the beautiful rooms in her castle
“It is kind of you to wear that,” said Boq. “Blue is the color of the
“We dare not harm this little girl,” he said to them, “for she is
The Clown put his hands in his pockets, and after puffing out his
reached solid ground. But here the country seemed wilder than ever, and
again.
Do let me carry that basket for you. I shall not mind it, for I can’t


Now the Wicked Witch had a great longing to have for her own the Silver
Dorothy went to work meekly, with her mind made up to work as hard as
gloomy. After the Lion had rested they started along the road of yellow
Toto looked up into her face with his little black eyes and wagged his
sound was heard in the air. There was a rushing of many wings, a great
near the top of the great dome, and it said:
him, “Hereafter you will be a great man, for I have given you a lot of
“Quick!” cried the Scarecrow. “Let us cross over.”
two or three days to consider the matter and I’ll try to find a way to

and a wrinkled face, who seemed to be as much surprised as they were.
careful. When Oz gives me a heart of course I needn’t mind so much.”
they like me; but ever since this Palace was built, I have shut myself
when he saw a tiny ant toiling by he would step over it, so as not to

“Good gracious!” exclaimed the man, and he bowed very low indeed before
rescue their friends, and the Winkies said that they would be delighted
falling off. When he got his head over the top of the wall the

Turning to the Tin Woodman, she asked, “What will become of you when
street, and Dorothy saw that everything in them was green. Green candy
usual. Dorothy stood in the door with Toto in her arms, and looked at
them again and again for his release, for he seemed a very polite
could, for some dogs see very well in the dark; and the Scarecrow
side of the country and came to another china wall.
Emerald City.
life is simply unbearable without a bit of courage.”
the people came out to look at her and bow low as she went by; for
The woman now called to them that supper was ready, so they gathered

brownie, or in any other form that pleases him. But who the real Oz is,
The Woodman set to work at once, and so sharp was his axe that the tree


King of the Forest?” inquired the Lion.

“We are all threatened,” answered the tiger, “by a fierce enemy which

themselves, they would surely have destroyed me. As it was, I lived in


The Scarecrow listened carefully, and said, “I cannot understand why


dancing.
“Permit me to introduce to you her Majesty, the Queen.”
far that a current of air struck it and carried it many, many miles

too long they also would fall asleep.
“Neither. He’s a—a—a meat dog,” said the girl.
jump over the gulf, Dorothy would be killed, or the Tin Woodman badly

enough from the poppy field to prevent her breathing any more of the
She was surprised, as she walked along, to see how pretty the country
“So I’ll just say good-bye.”
Chapter X
branches on the other side.
“How do you feel now?” asked Oz.
arms growing out of its body, and it also had five long, slim legs.
were all afraid of her.

keep away the other wild beasts. It seems to me they must be more
the Great Oz himself, and driven him out of the land of the West. The
and it glistened like burnished silver.
be a coward.”
started along the grassy bank, to the road from which the river had
but Oz made no reply. They thought the Great Wizard would send for them
had taken before, and all were greatly surprised when they looked about
in the palace, but now, to her surprise, she found it was no longer
would be pleased to have his company. So the Tin Woodman shouldered his


The soldier with the green whiskers was still on guard before the door,
part of the next until they came to the tall tree in the branches of
three flights of stairs until they came to a room at the front of the
Dorothy did not say anything, for she was puzzled to know which of her
frightened, as these birds always are by scarecrows, and did not dare
if I roared very loudly every living thing was frightened and got out
Cap had been made for a wedding present to Quelala, and it is said to
When he had fastened the Scarecrow’s head on his body again he said to
Woodman lay, all battered and bent. His axe was near him, but the blade
and flapping of wings, as the band of Winged Monkeys flew up to them.

“Very well,” answered Oz meekly. “Come to me tomorrow and you shall

“That is because you have no brains” answered the girl. “No matter how
draw it; but when all the mice had been harnessed, they were able to
back yard of the Palace, and the cackling of a hen that had laid a
Woodman was sure it was strong and would answer their purpose. The
“Yes,” answered the child, looking up and drying her tears.
year than they were last, I am sure Uncle Henry cannot afford it.”
afraid of the Kalidahs.”

“Good day,” said the Scarecrow, in a rather husky voice.

been melted by a bucket of water, and Dorothy at once unlocked the gate
locks a crown of jewels. Growing from her shoulders were wings,
“How can I cross the desert?” she inquired.
painted face.

by a small branch and shaken until he howled. But the Woodman promptly

Therefore, as you must remain in the Palace for several days, I will

felt his heart rattling around in his breast.


had to wipe every tear carefully from his face with her apron, so his



and Dorothy would lie beside him and put her head on his soft, shaggy
destroyed,” said the girl.

sometimes pleasant and sometimes dark and terrible. However, I will use

behind. Then the Lion said:
and managed to get along fairly well.
“What! are you back again?” he asked, in surprise.
“Is there no one who can help me?” asked Dorothy earnestly.
the ground. “I feel like a new man.”
lips, and they were gray also. She was thin and gaunt, and never smiled


They now came upon more and more of the big scarlet poppies, and fewer
saying:
be still.
and began to spread over the clean boards of the kitchen floor. Seeing
Then the beasts bowed down to the Lion as their King, and he promised

“‘I think I’ll make the other a little bigger,’” said the farmer. And

the desert. How can she do so?”
corner. As it fell with a crash they looked that way, and the next
fellow travelers.


“For my part, I am content in knowing I am as brave as any beast that
Then I thought, as the country was so green and beautiful, I would call
But Dorothy they did not harm at all. She stood, with Toto in her arms,
to travel to the Land of the South and ask Glinda to help her. For, of

the great Throne Room and bade him enter the presence of Oz.
discovered it to be a kinder and more tender heart than the one he had
roared with a mighty roar: “We will!”
Chapter IX
When Dorothy awoke the sun was shining through the trees and Toto had
“Well,” he said with a sigh, “I’m not much of a magician, as I said;
“Did you groan?” asked Dorothy.

her bath. The Witch was too much afraid of the dark to dare go in
at Dorothy as if to ask what they should do next.
they all sat down for a few moments to give the beast a chance to rest,
could not do very well as a wood-chopper. So I went to a tinsmith and
her hand. But, in truth, she did not dare to strike Dorothy, because of
Dorothy did not know this, nor could she get away from the bright red
“I haven’t the heart to harm even a Witch,” remarked the Tin Woodman;
imagination to carry Dorothy back to Kansas, and I’m sure I don’t know
“That was a good ride,” said the little girl.

Guardian of the Gates wore around his neck. When they were on, Dorothy
rule the Winkies wisely and well.”
But the Tin Woodman would not let her do this.

down to the floor and rolled around so queerly that they seemed to see
bending and soldering and polishing and pounding at the legs and body
lost in the great fields. They kept on walking, however, and at night
will grant you an audience, if you so desire; but each one of you must

Again a head shot swiftly out, and the great Lion went rolling down the
back to us as soon as possible.”
“Is the Wicked Witch really destroyed?” asked the Voice, and Dorothy

Emerald City was built a great many years ago, for I was a young man
They carried the sleeping girl to a pretty spot beside the river, far
glances over her shoulder at the clumsy strangers, holding her nicked
“We will carry you,” replied the King, and no sooner had he spoken than

nose, and mouth painted on it to represent a face. An old, pointed blue

walked along at a brisk pace. “I have lost much flesh since I lived
“We have come to claim our promise, O Oz.”
with sawdust.

floor she stumbled over the bar, not being able to see it, and fell at
wonder where she should pass the night, she came to a house rather
much covered by dried branches and dead leaves from the trees, and the
On and on they walked, and it seemed that the great carpet of deadly
left leg.
couch in a corner. They seemed greatly surprised to see so strange a

shoes that she never took them off except at night and when she took
been so startled by the child’s laughter that she would scream and
“‘They aren’t straight,’” answered the other.



could find anything to laugh at.
wife, and when Dorothy asked for something to eat the woman gave them
the right to command them once more.”

around him with joy. “Never have I seen a more beautiful place.”
to the farther edge of the wood. Then, to their surprise, they found

“What was that?” she asked timidly.
[Illustration]
castle of the Wicked Witch and the Emerald City. When the four
Dorothy looked inside the Golden Cap and saw some words written upon


“I can’t come back, my dear,” called Oz from the basket. “Good-bye!”
“Don’t speak of it, I beg of you,” replied the Woodman. “I have no
scratched against the tin it made a cold shiver run down my back. What

and sat down. There was a great cornfield beyond the fence, and not far
I came to this country it was in a balloon. You also came through the
Chapter XVII
“What shall we do now?” asked Dorothy.
looked around her. There was the Scarecrow, still standing patiently in
“And I want him to send me back to Kansas,” said Dorothy.

the Lion is everywhere thought to be the King of Beasts. I learned that
again.


On the next morning the soldier with the green whiskers came to the Tin
get thrown about.” He walked up to another tree, as he spoke, but its
and passed under the tree without injury, except Toto, who was caught
“Then bring them to me,” she said. And when the tinsmiths came,
Dorothy ate a hearty supper and was waited upon by the rich Munchkin
while he stood silently gazing at the Ball of Fire it became so
leave.
wrinkles in it.
every night, while the woman was asleep, Dorothy carried him food from

the tails of the animals that had no wings, chasing birds, and throwing

way.” He then opened the gate of the outer wall, and they walked forth
to cross the tree. And the Lion said to Dorothy:
walking over fields of soft grass dotted here and there with daisies
started to get him. Aunt Em, badly frightened, threw open the trap door
Oz, and claim his promise.”

foot again. Then, being at last free to do as she chose, she ran out to
good-bye she clapped the heels of her shoes together three times,

to bite or scratch or struggle in any way. Then they lifted him up and
clothing of a lovely emerald-green color and wore peaked hats like
back.
truck, using the strings they had brought. One end of a string was tied
spectacles of every size and shape. All of them had green glasses in
dog, with long silky hair and small black eyes that twinkled merrily on
“No, you are all wrong,” said the little man meekly. “I have been
dreadful than any of the forms they had seen Oz take.

“If we only had the Scarecrow with us again,” said the Tin Woodman,
best things in the world.”
how could I kill the Wicked Witch? If you, who are Great and Terrible,
but she felt quite lonely, and the wind shrieked so loudly all about
“Of course he’s stuffed,” replied Dorothy, who was still angry.

all a good dinner, with three kinds of cake and four kinds of cookies,


“Yes, indeed,” answered the little woman. “But I am a good witch, and
“My dear friends,” said Oz, “I pray you not to speak of these little

make one happy, and happiness is the best thing in the world.”
wolves.

the Woodman nor the Scarecrow ever ate anything, but she was not made
“That will be easy,” replied the man, “for when she knows you are in
“Of course,” answered the girl, “if he will see me.”
well as before.
L.F.B.


“If we walk far enough,” said Dorothy, “I am sure we shall sometime
would need the oil-can badly.”
green banks, and murmuring in a voice very grateful to a little girl
“And you promised to give me courage,” said the Cowardly Lion.

with him. But it is a long way to the Emerald City, and it will take

as the river carried us away.”
terrible thing to undergo, but during the year I stood there I had time

axe and they all passed through the forest until they came to the road
small yard with a high iron fence around it, so that he could not
“Your Silver Shoes will carry you over the desert,” replied Glinda. “If
pure white but her eyes were blue, and they looked kindly upon the
cowardly than you are if they allow you to scare them so easily.”

to everyone. I have heard that Glinda is a beautiful woman, who knows
side. It was a very wide ditch, and when they crept up to the edge and


barking merrily all the time.

“Yes, of course,” replied Oz. “I am tired of being such a humbug. If I
had married her and ordered us always to keep where she could never
someday I shall get the other one from you, too.”
“A balloon,” said Oz, “is made of silk, which is coated with glue to

his old form, and his joints worked as well as ever. To be sure, there
Oz. As Dorothy entered they looked at her curiously, and one of them
middle of the floor, from which a ladder led down into the small, dark
blew upon a silver whistle that hung around her neck.
people, and she was never known to hurt anyone who was good. Her name
“You are welcome, most noble Sorceress, to the land of the Munchkins.


So the Woodman took his axe and began to chop down small trees to make
It was true; Toto had fallen down beside his little mistress. But the

turning his head (which worked beautifully on hinges) he saw a strange
all her magic powers to make him as strong and good and lovely as any
every rock.


and waited for the fresh breeze to waken her.

“Why?” asked Dorothy.

Golden Cap, and said, “Why don’t you use the charm of the Cap, and call
showed bright against the green grass and the yellowing grain.

“So he is,” said the green man, “and he rules the Emerald City wisely

any place in the world in three steps, and each step will be made in



Land of the South. They were all in the best of spirits, and laughed
They came from all directions, and there were thousands of them: big

rhinoceros, only there were five eyes in its face. There were five long
when he is in his own form, no living person can tell.”
when Dorothy had finished telling him everything that had happened, “I
of her dress. And so, with Toto trotting along soberly behind her, she
“If ever you need us again,” she said, “come out into the field and


tied, and Quelala said a kind word for them also; so that Gayelette
horses were kept.
“I don’t know,” replied Dorothy sorrowfully, “but it is my home, and

constantly guarded by the yellow Winkies, who were the slaves of the
Toto did not like this addition to the party at first. He smelled


“Making believe!” cried Dorothy. “Are you not a Great Wizard?”
pretty. Here he comes now, so you can see for yourself.”
“That’s why he nearly blunted my claws,” said the Lion. “When they



children and a man. The man had hurt his leg, and was lying on the


gorgeous in color and so light that they fluttered if the slightest
the Lion explained that the animals were holding a meeting, and he
tall stick, where you found me. He and his friend soon after walked

They found the ladder so heavy they could not pull it up, so the


place, abounding in jewels and precious metals, and every good thing
that they almost stood upon their heads.
Scarecrow.”
quick blow that cut the beast’s head clean off from its body, and it
and looked everywhere to see where she was. “After a time,” continued
his corner, waiting for her.
was no way of going around it, for it seemed to extend to the right and
shot a spray of green perfume into the air, to fall back into a
Scarecrow, but he refused.

Dorothy picked them up and had the Winkies carry them back to the


“Really,” said the Scarecrow, “you ought to be ashamed of yourself for
“And now,” said Dorothy, “how am I to get back to Kansas?”
near to cover Dorothy with dry leaves when she lay down to sleep. These

notion which way it lies. But the first thing to do is to cross the
last they grew vexed that Oz should treat them in so poor a fashion,
“And I should not have had my lovely heart,” said the Tin Woodman. “I
head; but he would not say what they were because he knew no one could
“But how about the voice?” she inquired.
scrambled eggs and a plate of nice white bread, and enjoyed her meal.

nothing on earth, and would gladly face an army or a dozen of the

the Scarecrow, when she had finished her dinner. So she told him all
found a tree full of nuts and filled Dorothy’s basket with them, so
could call three times upon the Winged Monkeys, who would obey any

“What shall we do?” asked Dorothy despairingly.

at once, but he did not. They had no word from him the next day, nor
over.
off upon the pretty green grass, and they also knew that the stream had

back to Kansas at once.”

my head off, as long as it will be a better one when you put it on

the moon came out and shone brightly. So they lay down among the sweet
“but the kind Stork saved me, and if I ever get any brains I shall find
branches of a tall tree.
beside him. Then he called to his companions to rise, and again they
woods far below them.
The four travelers passed a sleepless night, each thinking of the gift
“Oh, indeed,” said the Woodman, making a bow.
“I shall take the heart,” returned the Tin Woodman; “for brains do not

wishes upon us.”

bitten him had he not known very well he was made of tin. Finally one

you many days. The country here is rich and pleasant, but you must pass
go to drive. But as she opened the gate the Lion gave a loud roar and
“It must be inconvenient to be made of flesh,” said the Scarecrow


sorry not to do as you wish, but we must pass over your hill whether
the girl was thankful the Scarecrow did not have to eat anything, for
Scarecrow in the middle and sent him tumbling, over and over, down the
vegetables in abundance. Evidently the Munchkins were good farmers and
ever; but I little knew how cruel my enemy could be. She thought of a
“Come, Dorothy!” cried the Wizard. “Hurry up, or the balloon will fly
upon her head. Then she stood upon her left foot and said slowly:
wondering how we shall get him again.”
use her power.” Then she said to Dorothy, harshly and severely:
The remaining Monkeys threw pieces of stout rope around the Lion and

top with brains.
The Lion was angry at this speech, but could say nothing in reply, and
“What can I do for you, my child?” she asked.
Emerald City is?”

squeaky little voice:
“Well,” said the Head, “I will give you my answer. You have no right to
“Perhaps I have, but I’m scared just the same,” said the Lion. “I shall



“And I should never get back to Kansas,” said Dorothy.


another a Lion. None of them is fit to work, so you may tear them into
fearsome moral to each tale. Modern education includes morality;

them.”
the one paved with yellow bricks. Within a short time she was walking
will have to live with us.”
full of dangers to travelers. There are wild beasts in the woods, and a
The Cowardly Lion
“I cannot imagine,” replied the Scarecrow; “but we can go and see.”
to a whisper. “He is more powerful than all the rest of us together. He
had him make me a new leg out of tin. The leg worked very well, once I
good breakfast.”

walked up to it and knocked at the door. It was opened by the farmer’s

“I was born the son of a woodman who chopped down trees in the forest

You’d eaten up a poker!”
Then a strange thing happened.
again—or let go—the raft was swept away, and the poor Scarecrow was
“I can’t find Toto anywhere,” replied Dorothy, who did not wish to

the only thing I could do. Sit down, please, there are plenty of
tin. After this the enchanted axe cut off my arms, one after the other;
“We have surely lost our way,” he said, “and unless we find it again in


Great Wizard, and can take on any form he wishes. So that some say he

 Chapter XIII. The Rescue
“When shall we start?” asked the Scarecrow.
that I was quite an important person. By and by an old crow flew near
off, but the Wicked Witch was angry to find them in her country; so she
to push the raft through the water.
tigers,” replied the Lion, “and with claws so long and sharp that they
you will not be harmed.”
be harder than ever to get back to Kansas and Aunt Em again. Sometimes
shaking his head in perplexity. “He is powerful and terrible, and if
were dressed in blue, of the same shade as their hats, and wore
when the City was first built, and I have the only key that will unlock
was not a Head, as she had seen him, but a lovely Lady.


“Of course not,” answered Dorothy. “How should I?”
into me, it doesn’t matter, for I can’t feel it. But I do not want
Tin Woodman wept for several minutes, and she watched the tears
“You have plenty of courage, I am sure,” answered Oz. “All you need is
purple velvet, and my grandfather thought he would see what he could
They were all tired out when they reached the shore at last and stepped
covering to protect them from the dew, and the Tin Woodman chopped a
near the Emerald City.”
there.”
days at the Yellow Castle, where they found everything they needed to
flew away with him to the Witch’s castle, where he was placed in a
Hour after hour passed away, and slowly Dorothy got over her fright;
find herself lying upon the grass, with thousands of mice standing
“I don’t know enough,” replied the Scarecrow cheerfully. “My head is
Evil. All we can do is to carry her to the castle of the Wicked Witch
Wizard.”

walking was not at all good.
belonged to the Witch of the East.
land.



“It may be,” said the Lion.
tried to go nearer, the heat was so intense that it singed his
afraid, although he was much disappointed.
“I did not like to be deserted this way. So I tried to walk after them.


There was great rejoicing among the yellow Winkies, for they had been
“Once,” began the leader, “we were a free people, living happily in the

forefoot.
laying a white cloth over the top. Then she looked down at her feet and
“To be sure they could,” cried the Scarecrow. “Why didn’t we think of
powers to make a cyclone; but I’ve been thinking the matter over, and I
“To wash my face clean after the dust of the road, and to drink, so the